.TH d.colortable 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBd.colortable\fR\fR  \- Displays the color table associated with a raster map layer.
.SH KEYWORDS
display, raster, color table
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBd.colortable\fR
.br
\fBd.colortable \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBd.colortable\fR [\-\fBn\fR] \fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBcolor\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBlines\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBcolumns\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-n\fR" 4m
.br
Do not draw a collar showing the NULL color in FP maps
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of raster map whose color table is to be displayed
.IP "\fBcolor\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Color of lines separating the colors of the color table
.br
Either a standard color name or R:G:B triplet
.br
Default: \fIwhite\fR
.IP "\fBlines\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Number of lines to appear in the color table
.br
Options: \fI1\-1000\fR
.IP "\fBcolumns\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Number of columns to appear in the color table
.br
Options: \fI1\-1000\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fId.colortable\fR is used to display the color table associated
with a raster map in the active frame on the graphics
monitor. The \fBmap\fR name should be an available raster map in the
user\(cqs current mapset search path and location.
.PP
If the \fIvalues\fR of both \fBlines\fR and \fBcolumns\fR are
not specified by the user, \fId.colortable\fR divides the active
frame equally among the number of categories present in the named
raster map. If one option is specified, the other is automatically set
to accommodate all categories.  If both are specified, as many
categories as possible are displayed.
.PP
If the user specifies the name of a map on the command line but does not
specify the values of other parameters, parameter default values will be used.
Alternately, if the user types simply \fId.colortable\fR on the command line
without any program arguments, the program will prompt the user for parameter
settings using the standard GRASS parser interface.
.SH EXAMPLE
The user running the command:
.br
.nf
\fC
d.colortable map=soils color=red lines=1 columns=3
\fR
.fi
would see the active graphics frame divided into three columns
extending the full frame height. The lines dividing the color table
associated with the \fIsoils\fR map would be displayed in red. The
user would see, at most, only three of the colors from
the \fIsoils\fR color table displayed in the active frame (because
the user requested that this frame be divided into three sections).
.SH NOTES
If the user wishes to display the entire color table associated with
a map, the user should either stipulate a number of lines (rows) and
columns (cols) sufficient to accommodate the number of categories
in the map\(cqs color table, or fail to assign values to one or both of
\fBlines\fR and/or \fBcolumns\fR.
If the user runs \fId.colortable\fR using the default number of
lines and columns (the full graphics frame), all categories from the
map\(cqs color table will be displayed. However, if the user requests
that the color table associated with a map which has 10 data categories
be displayed in a graphics frame with only 3 lines (rows) and 2 columns
(a total of six cells),
only six of the ten map categories will be displayed.
.PP
The user should run \fId.erase\fR
between runs of \fId.colortable\fR to avoid confusion.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
d.erase,
d.legend,
d.rast
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
James Westervelt, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
d.colortable source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Display index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
