.TH d.font 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBd.font\fR\fR  \- Selects the font in which text will be displayed on the user\(cqs graphics monitor.
.SH KEYWORDS
display, settings
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBd.font\fR
.br
\fBd.font \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBd.font\fR [\-\fBlv\fR]  [\fBfont\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBpath\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBcharset\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-l\fR" 4m
.br
List fonts
.IP "\fB\-v\fR" 4m
.br
List fonts verbosely
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBfont\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Choose new current font
.br
Default: \fIromans\fR
.IP "\fBpath\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Path to Freetype\-compatible font including file name
.IP "\fBcharset\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Character encoding
.br
Default: \fIUTF\-8\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fId.font\fR allows the user to select use of a specific text font for
display of text on the graphics monitor.
If the user does not specify a font when using other GRASS programs
that display text, the font type \fIromans\fR is used by default.
.PP
The user can run this program either non\-interactively or interactively.
If the user specifies a font type name on the command line the program will
run non\-interactively.
Alternately, the user can simply type \fBd.font\fR on the command line;
in this case, the program will prompt the user for a display
text font type.
.PP
\fBParameter:\fR
.IP "\fBfont=\fR\fIname\fR " 4m
.br
Name of a font type, from among the font types italicized below.
.br
Default: \fIromans\fR
.br
Options: (italized)
.br
\fIcyrilc\fR Cyrillic
.br
\fIgothgbt\fR Gothic Great Britain triplex
.br
\fIgothgrt\fR Gothic German triplex
.br
\fIgothitt\fR Gothic Italian triplex
.br
\fIgreekc\fR Greek complex
.br
\fIgreekcs\fR Greek complex script
.br
\fIgreekp\fR Greek plain
.br
\fIgreeks\fR Greek simplex
.br
\fIitalicc\fR Italian complex
.br
\fIitaliccs\fR Italian complex small
.br
\fIitalict\fR Italian triplex
.br
\fIromanc\fR Roman complex
.br
\fIromancs\fR Roman complex small
.br
\fIromand\fR Roman duplex
.br
\fIromanp\fR Roman plain
.br
\fIromans\fR Roman simplex
.br
\fIromant\fR Roman triplex
.br
\fIscriptc\fR Script complex
.br
\fIscripts\fR Script simplex
.SH NOTES
The font type
\fIromans\fR
is the fastest font type to display to the graphics monitor.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fId.text\fR
.br
\fId.title\fR
.SH AUTHOR
James Westervelt, U.S. Army Construction Engineering
Research Laboratory
.PP
\fId.font\fR uses the public domain version of the Hershey Fonts created
by Dr. A.V. Hershey while working at the U.S. National Bureau of
Standards.
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: d.font source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Display index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
