.TH d.graph 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBd.graph\fR\fR  \- Program for generating and displaying simple graphics on the display monitor.
.SH KEYWORDS
display, cartography
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBd.graph\fR
.br
\fBd.graph \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBd.graph\fR [\-\fBm\fR]  [\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBcolor\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-m\fR" 4m
.br
Coordinates are given in map units
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of file containing graphics commands, if not given reads from standard input
.IP "\fBcolor\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Color to draw with, either a standard GRASS color or R:G:B triplet
.br
Default: \fIblack\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fId.graph\fR
draws graphics that are described either from standard input (default),
or within a file (if an \fBinput\fR file name is identified on the
command line). If graphics commands are entered from standard input,
a \fICTRL\-d\fR is used to signal the end of input to \fId.graph\fR.
Coordinates are given either as a percentage of frame height and width
(default) or in geographic coordinates (with the \fB\-m\fR flag).
.PP
The program can be run interactively or non\-interactively.
The user can run the program completely non\-interactively
by specifying the name of a graphics file containing the
\fId.graph\fR graphics commands. If run non\-interactively the
\fId.graph\fR command is saved to the display\(cqs dedraw history.
The user can also elect to run the program partially interactively,
by specifying any/all of the parameters \fIexcept\fR
the graphics file \fBinput=\fR\fIname\fR parameter on the command line.
In this case, \fId.graph\fR will expect the user to input \fId.graph\fR
graphics commands from standard input (i.e., the keyboard) and
will (silently) prompt the user for these graphics commands.
.PP
Alternately, the user can simply type \fBd.graph\fR on the command line,
and be prompted for the values of all parameters. In this case, the user is presented with the standard
GRASS GUI interface.
.PP
The default coordinate system used is 0\-100 percent of the active frame
in x and similarly 0\-100 in y,
regardless of the graphics monitor display frame size and aspect.
The (0,0) location is the lower left corner of the active graphics
monitor display frame. All values may be floating point.
If the \fB\-m\fR flag is given, geographic coordinates will be used instead.
.SH COMMANDS
.PP
The graphics language is simple, and uses the following commands:
.br
.br
[
# |
move |
draw |
polygon |
polyline |
color |
text |
size |
symbol |
rotation |
icon |
width
]
.IP "\fB#\fR \fIcomment\fR" 4m
.br
A line of comment which is ignored in the processing.
.IP "\fBmove\fR \fIxpos ypos\fR" 4m
.br
The current location is updated to \fIxpos ypos\fR.
Unless the \fB\-m\fR flag is used,
values are stated as a percent of the active display frame\(cqs
horizontal (\fIxpos\fR) and vertical (\fIypos\fR) size,
and may be floating point values. Values are between 0\-100.
\fBNote.\fR A space must separate \fIxpos\fR and \fIypos\fR.
.IP "\fBdraw\fR \fIxpos ypos\fR" 4m
.br
A line is drawn in the current color from the current location to the new
location \fIxpos ypos\fR, which then becomes the current location.
Unless the \fB\-m\fR flag is used,
values are stated as a percent of the active display frame\(cqs
horizontal (\fIxpos\fR) and vertical (\fIypos\fR) size,
and may be floating point values. Values are between 0\-100.
\fBNote.\fR A space must separate \fIxpos\fR and \fIypos\fR.
.IP "\fBpolygon\fR    \fI xpos ypos\fR    \fI xpos ypos\fR    ..." 4m
.br
The coordinates appearing beneath the word \fIpolygon\fR,
one pair per line,
circumscribe a polygon that is to be filled with the current color.
.IP "\fBpolyline\fR    \fI xpos ypos\fR    \fI xpos ypos\fR    ..." 4m
.br
The coordinates appearing beneath the word \fIpolyline\fR,
one pair per line,
circumscribe a polygon that is not to be filled with color.
.IP "\fBcolor\fR \fIcolor\fR" 4m
.br
Sets the current color to that stated; subsequent graphics will be drawn
in the stated color, until the current color is set to a different color.
Options are \fIred\fR,
\fIorange\fR,
\fIyellow\fR,
\fIgreen\fR,
\fIblue\fR,
\fIindigo\fR,
\fIviolet\fR,
\fIbrown\fR,
\fImagenta\fR,
\fIgray\fR,
\fIwhite\fR,
\fIblack\fR,
an R:G:B triplet (separated by colons),
or the word \(dqnone\(dq (draws in the default background color).
.IP "\fBtext\fR \fIline\-of\-text\fR" 4m
.br
The stated text is drawn at the current location using the current color,
and the new current location is then positioned at the end of the text string.
.IP "\fBsize\fR \fIxper yper\fR" 4m
.br
Subsequent text will be drawn such that the text is
\fIxper\fR percent of the graphics monitor display frame wide and
\fIyper\fR percent of the frame high. By default, the text size is set to
5 percent of the active frame\(cqs width and 5 percent of the frame\(cqs height.
If only one value is given, then that value will be used for both x and y
scaling.
.br
\fBNote.\fR A space must separate \fIxper\fR and \fIyper\fR.
.IP "\fBsymbol\fR \fItype size xper yper [line_color [fill_color]]\fR" 4m
.br
A symbol is drawn at the given size on the display monitor. The
\fIxper\fR and \fIyper\fR options define the center of the icon and
are given as a percentage of the display frame (0,0 is lower left).
The symbol can be any of those stored in $GISBASE/etc/symbol/
(e.g. \fIbasic/circle\fR) or stored in the user\(cqs mapset directory in the
form $MAPSET/symbol/\fItype/name\fR.
The colors may be either a standard color name, an R:G:B triplet,
or \(dqnone\(dq. If using an R:G:B triplet, each color value can range from 0\-255.
If not specified the default \fIline_color\fR is black and the default
\fIfill_color\fR is grey.
.IP "\fBrotation\fR \fIangle\fR" 4m
.br
Subsequent text and symbols will be drawn such that they are rotated
\fIangle\fR degrees counter\-clockwise from east.
.IP "\fBicon\fR \fItype size x y\fR" 4m
.br
Draws an icon of types \fIo\fR, \fIx\fR, or \fI+\fR
with specified \fIsize\fR (in %) at location \fIx,y\fR.
Note: type \fIo\fR designates a square.
.IP "\fBwidth\fR \fIvalue\fR" 4m
.br
Subsequent lines (including non\-FreeType text) will be drawn with
the given pixel thickness.
.br
The default value is 0.
.SH EXAMPLES
For an example use of \fId.graph\fR, examine the contents of the
command file \fIgrass_logo.txt\fR
located in the \fId.graph\fR source code directory. It will draw the
CERL GRASS logo using the \fId.graph\fR graphing commands stored in the file.
Note that the coordinates in the \fIgrass_logo.txt\fR file were
taken directly off an image drawn by hand on graph paper.
.PP
A dynamic example can be found in the \fId.polar\fR shell script.
.SS Draw a \(dqstar\(dq symbol at a given map coordinate
.br
.nf
\fC
echo \(dqsymbol basic/star 20 2264417 5413182 black red\(dq | d.graph \-m
\fR
.fi
.SS Split the screen into quadrants:
.br
.nf
\fC
d.frame \-s full_screen
d.graph << EOF
  color 80:80:120
  polygon
   0 49.75
   0 50.25
   100 50.25
   100 49.75
  polygon
   49.85 0
   50.15 0
   50.15 100
   49.85 100
EOF
\fR
.fi
.SH NOTES
\fId.graph\fR remembers the last screen location (\fIxpos ypos\fR) to which
the user moved, even after the user erases the display frame.
If the user runs \fId.graph\fR repeatedly, and wishes to start anew with
the default (xpos ypos) screen location, the user should \fIclear\fR the
display frame between runs of \fId.graph\fR.
.SH LIMITATIONS
There are no automated ways of generating graphic images. It is anticipated
that GRASS user sites will write programs to convert output from a resident
graphics editor into GRASS \fId.graph\fR format.
(e.g. EPS \-> \fId.graph\fR, perhaps with the help of a
pstoedit plugin)
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
d.font,
d.labels,
d.polar,
d.text,
d.where
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
James Westervelt, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: d.graph source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Display index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
