.TH d.grid 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBd.grid\fR\fR  \- Overlays a user\-specified grid in the active display frame on the graphics monitor.
.SH KEYWORDS
display, cartography, graticule, grid
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBd.grid\fR
.br
\fBd.grid \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBd.grid\fR [\-\fBagwcdfnbt\fR] \fBsize\fR=\fIvalue\fR  [\fBorigin\fR=\fIeast,north\fR]   [\fBdirection\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBwidth\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBcolor\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBborder_color\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBtext_color\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBbgcolor\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBfontsize\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-a\fR" 4m
.br
Align the origin to the east\-north corner of the current region
.IP "\fB\-g\fR" 4m
.br
Draw geographic grid (referenced to current ellipsoid)
.IP "\fB\-w\fR" 4m
.br
Draw geographic grid (referenced to WGS84 ellipsoid)
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 4m
.br
Draw \(cq+\(cq marks instead of grid lines
.IP "\fB\-d\fR" 4m
.br
Draw \(cq.\(cq marks instead of grid lines
.IP "\fB\-f\fR" 4m
.br
Draw fiducial marks instead of grid lines
.IP "\fB\-n\fR" 4m
.br
Disable grid drawing
.IP "\fB\-b\fR" 4m
.br
Disable border drawing
.IP "\fB\-t\fR" 4m
.br
Disable text drawing
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBsize\fR=\fIvalue\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Size of grid to be drawn (in map units)
.br
0 for north\-south resolution of the current region. In map units or DDD:MM:SS format. Example: \(dq1000\(dq or \(dq0:10\(dq
.IP "\fBorigin\fR=\fIeast,north\fR" 4m
.br
Lines of the grid pass through this coordinate
.br
Default: \fI0,0\fR
.IP "\fBdirection\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Draw only east\-west lines, north\-south lines, or both
.br
Options: \fIboth, east\-west, north\-south\fR
.br
Default: \fIboth\fR
.IP "\fBwidth\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Grid line width
.IP "\fBcolor\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Grid color
.br
Either a standard color name or R:G:B triplet
.br
Default: \fIgray\fR
.IP "\fBborder_color\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Border color
.br
Either a standard color name or R:G:B triplet
.br
Default: \fIblack\fR
.IP "\fBtext_color\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Text color
.br
Either a standard color name or R:G:B triplet
.br
Default: \fIgray\fR
.IP "\fBbgcolor\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Background color
.br
Either a standard color name, R:G:B triplet, or \(dqnone\(dq
.br
Default: \fInone\fR
.IP "\fBfontsize\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Font size for gridline coordinate labels
.br
Options: \fI1\-72\fR
.br
Default: \fI9\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fId.grid\fR overlays a grid of user\-defined size and
color in the active display frame on the graphics monitor.
The grid can be created as a standard rectangular grid or
a geographic grid.
.PP
If the user provides a \fB\-g\fR flag a geographic (projected) grid
will be drawn. With the \fB\-g\fR flag the \fBsize\fR
argument accepts both decimal degrees and colon separated
ddd:mm:ss coordinates (eg. 00:30:00 for half of a degree).
A geographic grid cannot be drawn for a \fIlatitude/longitude\fR
or \fIXY\fR projection.
.PP
Colors may be standard named GRASS colors (red, green, aqua, etc.) or
a numerical R:G:B triplet, where component values range from 0\-255.
Grid color can be set with option \fBcolor\fR. Options \fBtext_color\fR and
\fBbgcolor\fR set the color of the text and its background.
.PP
The grid drawing may be turned off by using the \fB\-n\fR flag.
.br
The border drawing may be turned off by using the \fB\-b\fR flag.
.br
The coordinate text may be turned off by using the \fB\-t\fR flag.
.br
.PP
To draw grid lines at different intervals, e.g. at high latitudes, you
can run the module twice, once with \fBdirection\fR=\fIeast\-west\fR
at one interval \fBsize\fR, and again with
\fBdirection\fR=\fInorth\-south\fR at another interval \fBsize\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
To draw a red geographic grid with 30 minute grid spacing, run
one of the following commands:
.br
.nf
\fC
d.grid \-g size=00:30:00 color=red
\fR
.fi
or
.br
.nf
\fC
d.grid \-g size=0.5 color=255:0:0
\fR
.fi
.br
\fIFigure: Showing a geographic grid in red line color\fR
To draw a blue standard rectangular grid at a 500 (meter) spacing run the following:
.br
.nf
\fC
d.grid size=500 color=blue
\fR
.fi
.br
\fIFigure: Showing a rectangular grid in blue line color\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
d.barscale,
d.legend,
d.geodesic,
d.rhumbline,
d.erase,
d.frame,
d.rast,
v.mkgrid
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
James Westervelt, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory
.br
Geogrid support: Bob Covill
.br
Border support: Markus Neteler
.br
Text and RGB support: Hamish Bowman
.br
Background color implemented as part of GSoC 2016 by Adam Laza, CTU in Prague
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
d.grid source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Display index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
