.TH d.mon 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBd.mon\fR\fR  \- Controls graphics display monitors from the command line.
.SH KEYWORDS
display, graphics, monitors
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBd.mon\fR
.br
\fBd.mon \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBd.mon\fR [\-\fBlpcgsrtux\fR]  [\fBstart\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBstop\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBselect\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBwidth\fR=\fIvalue\fR]   [\fBheight\fR=\fIvalue\fR]   [\fBresolution\fR=\fIvalue\fR]   [\fBbgcolor\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-l\fR" 4m
.br
List running monitors and exit
.IP "\fB\-p\fR" 4m
.br
Print name of currently selected monitor and exit
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 4m
.br
Print commands for currently selected monitor and exit
.IP "\fB\-g\fR" 4m
.br
Print path to support files of currently selected monitor and exit
.IP "\fB\-s\fR" 4m
.br
Do not automatically select when starting
.IP "\fB\-r\fR" 4m
.br
Release and stop currently selected monitor and exit
.IP "\fB\-t\fR" 4m
.br
Disable true colors
.IP "\fB\-u\fR" 4m
.br
Open output file in update mode
.br
Requires \-\-overwrite flag
.IP "\fB\-x\fR" 4m
.br
Launch light\-weight wx monitor without toolbars and statusbar
.br
Requires \(cqstart=wx0\-7\(cq
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBstart\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Name of monitor to start
.br
Options: \fIwx0, wx1, wx2, wx3, wx4, wx5, wx6, wx7, png, ps, html, cairo\fR
.IP "\fBstop\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Name of monitor to stop
.br
Options: \fIwx0, wx1, wx2, wx3, wx4, wx5, wx6, wx7, png, ps, html, cairo\fR
.IP "\fBselect\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Name of monitor to select
.br
Options: \fIwx0, wx1, wx2, wx3, wx4, wx5, wx6, wx7, png, ps, html, cairo\fR
.IP "\fBwidth\fR=\fIvalue\fR" 4m
.br
Width for display monitor if not set by GRASS_RENDER_WIDTH
.br
Default value: 720
.IP "\fBheight\fR=\fIvalue\fR" 4m
.br
Height for display monitor if not set by GRASS_RENDER_HEIGHT
.br
Default value: 480
.IP "\fBresolution\fR=\fIvalue\fR" 4m
.br
Dimensions of display monitor versus current size
.br
Example: resolution=2 enlarge display monitor twice to 1280x960
.IP "\fBbgcolor\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Background color
.br
Either a standard color name, R:G:B triplet, or \(dqnone\(dq
.br
Default: \fIwhite\fR
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output file (when starting new monitor)
.br
Ignored for \(cqwx\(cq monitors
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fId.mon\fR allows the user to start, select, list, release, and
stop available graphics monitors.
.SS Starting a monitor
In order to display on\-screen GRASS graphics, the user must
\fBstart\fR and \fBselect\fR a graphics monitor. By default,
the \fBstart\fR command actually runs two commands, to both start and
select whatever monitor is named by the user. The user can get a list
of running monitors by setting the \fB\-l\fR flag on the command
line. Note that some monitor drivers use environment
\fIvariables\fR or the specific
\fIdriver documentation\fR.
.PP
When a monitor is \fIstarted\fR, it is therefore also
(automatically) \fIselected\fR for output, unless the
\fB\-s\fR flag is set by the user; the user can also
explicitly \fBselect\fR a monitor that has been started.
.PP
The desired monitor should be started once and need not be restarted
unless it is stopped for some reason. A monitor may continue to run
for any length of time, even when no GRASS session is being run.
.SS Stopping a monitor
A graphics monitor has two different types of status: monitor
program \fInot running\fR, and monitor \fIrunning\fR. A monitor
that has been started and/or selected will be listed as running; a
monitor that has been stopped (or not started) will be listed as not
running.  The \fB\-l\fR flag will list all currently running monitors.
.SS Selecting a monitor
When the user \fIstarts\fR a monitor, it is also
(automatically) \fIselected\fR for graphics output unless the user
sets the \fB\-s\fR flag.  In order to use (direct graphics output to)
a monitor, the user must \fIselect\fR that monitor for use, either
by simply starting the monitor without the \fB\-s\fR flag or by
explicitly selecting the monitor for output. Only running monitors can
be selected for graphics output.
.PP
The user can run multiple graphics monitors by simply starting each of
the graphics monitors the user wishes to direct output to.
.SS Releasing (unselecting) a monitor
Currently \fIselected\fR a monitor can be released by \fB\-r\fR
flag.
.SH NOTES
\fId.mon\fR is designed for interactive use. If non\-interactive use
is needed (e.g., in a script) set GRASS_RENDER_IMMEDIATE=png
(or =cairo) and use the related environment
variables to control output size etc.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS wx0 monitor
To start the interactive \fIwxGUI map
display\fR, run
.br
.nf
\fC
d.mon start=wx0
\fR
.fi
.br
\fIFigure: The initialization of display monitor wx0\fR
All subsequently displayed data will be rendered on monitor wx0.
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=elevation \-p
d.rast map=elevation
\fR
.fi
.br
\fIFigure: The display wx0 showing an elevation raster map\fR
.SS CAIRO file renderer monitor
A CAIRO monitor can be started (and selected) by
.br
.nf
\fC
d.mon start=cairo output=out.pdf
\fR
.fi
From this moment on all displayed data will be rendered into
file output.pdf.
.SS List running monitors
To list the currently running monitors, use
.br
.nf
\fC
d.mon \-l
List of running monitors:
wx0
cairo
\fR
.fi
.SS Show currently selected monitor
To identify the currently selected monitor, use
.br
.nf
\fC
d.mon \-p
cairo
\fR
.fi
.SS Switching between monitors
To switch back to interactive display mode, here to an earlier started and
still running wxGUI monitor, use
.br
.nf
\fC
d.mon select=wx0
\fR
.fi
.SS Stopping a monitor
To close the wxGUI monitor, run
.br
.nf
\fC
d.mon stop=wx0
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
d.erase,
d.redraw,
d.rast,
d.vect,
d.frame
\fR
.PP
See also list
of variables for rendering,
display drivers
.SH AUTHOR
Martin Landa, OSGeoREL, Czech Technical University in Prague, Czech Republic
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
d.mon source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Display index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
