.TH d.path 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBd.path\fR\fR  \- Finds shortest path for selected starting and ending node.
.SH KEYWORDS
display, network, shortest path
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBd.path\fR
.br
\fBd.path \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBd.path\fR [\-\fBgb\fR] \fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBarc_type\fR=\fIstring\fR[,\fIstring\fR,...]]  \fBcoordinates\fR=\fIx1,y1,x2,y2\fR  [\fBarc_layer\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBnode_layer\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBarc_column\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBarc_backward_column\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBnode_column\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBcolor\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBhighlight_color\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBbgcolor\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-g\fR" 4m
.br
Use geodesic calculation for longitude\-latitude locations
.IP "\fB\-b\fR" 4m
.br
Render bold lines
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of vector map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBarc_type\fR=\fIstring[,\fIstring\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Arc type
.br
Options: \fIline, boundary\fR
.br
Default: \fIline,boundary\fR
.IP "\fBcoordinates\fR=\fIx1,y1,x2,y2\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Starting and ending coordinates
.IP "\fBarc_layer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Arc layer
.br
Vector features can have category values in different layers. This number determines which layer to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBnode_layer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Node layer
.br
Vector features can have category values in different layers. This number determines which layer to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI2\fR
.IP "\fBarc_column\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Arc forward/both direction(s) cost column (number)
.IP "\fBarc_backward_column\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Arc backward direction cost column (number)
.IP "\fBnode_column\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Node cost column
.IP "\fBcolor\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Original line color
.br
Default: \fIblack\fR
.IP "\fBhighlight_color\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Highlight color
.br
Default: \fIred\fR
.IP "\fBbgcolor\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Background color
.br
Default: \fIwhite\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fId.path\fR enables shortest path vector networking.
Costs may be either line lengths, or attributes saved in a database table.
Supported are cost assignments for both arcs and nodes, and also different
in both directions of a vector line. For areas cost will be calculated along
boundary lines.
.SH NOTE
The user needs to display a vector map before using d.path. If no graphics monitor
is open, a file map.png is generated in the current directory.
.PP
The \(cqfrom\(cq and \(cqto\(cq points are entered by mouse into the map displayed in the GRASS monitor,
or if the \fBcoordinates\fR option is used they can be specified non\-interactively.
The actions bound to the mouse buttons are described in the terminal
window when running the command.
.PP
To calculate shortest path non\-interactively and save the path to a new vector
map, use the \fIv.net.path\fR module.
.SH EXAMPLES
Interactive shortest path routing on road network (North Carolina sample dataset):
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region vector=roadsmajor \-p
d.vect roadsmajor
d.path roadsmajor coordinates=668646.15,224447.16,668348.83,235894.02
\fR
.fi
.PP
Non\-interactive shortest path routing on road network (North Carolina sample dataset):
.br
.nf
\fC
d.path \-b roadsmajor coordinates=668646.15,224447.16,668348.83,235894.02
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
v.net.path
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Radim Blazek, ITC\-Irst, Trento, Italy
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
d.path source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Display index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
