.TH d.rast.leg 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBd.rast.leg.py\fR\fR  \- Displays a raster map and its legend on a graphics window
.SH KEYWORDS
display, cartography, legend
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBd.rast.leg.py\fR
.br
\fBd.rast.leg.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBd.rast.leg.py\fR [\-\fBfns\fR] \fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBlines\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBraster\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-f\fR" 4m
.br
Flip legend
.IP "\fB\-n\fR" 4m
.br
Omit entries with missing label
.IP "\fB\-s\fR" 4m
.br
Draw smooth gradient
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of raster map to display
.IP "\fBlines\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Number of lines to appear in the legend
.IP "\fBraster\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map to generate legend from
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fId.rast.leg\fR shows a raster map along with its legend.
It first clears the entire screen, then divides it
into a main (left) and a minor (right) frames, and displays a raster
map in the main frame and the map legend in the minor frame. The main
frame remains active when the program finishes.
.SH NOTES
The legend may be flipped with the \fB\-f\fR flag.
.PP
If the \fBlines\fR parameter is not given then the legend frame will
display as many lines as number of categories in the map, otherwise, it
will display the first \fBlines\fR minus 1 categories with the
rest being truncated.
.PP
The user may adjust the \fBlines\fR parameter or
the size of graphics window to get an appropriate result.
.PP
The user may specify a second raster map with the \fBraster\fR parameter from
which the legend is generated. This is useful to visualize (time) series of
raster maps with a common static legend instead of the default dynamic legend.
.PP
To remove all frames when clearing the display, use
d.erase \-f.
.SH EXAMPLE
In this example, the polar diagram of the \(cqaspect\(cq angle map in the
North Carolina sample dataset location is generated:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=landclass96 \-p
d.rast.leg landclass96
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
d.legend,
d.erase,
d.rast
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Jianping Xu, Scott Madry, Rutgers University
.br
Markus Neteler
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
d.rast.leg source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Display index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
