.TH d.shade 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBd.shade.py\fR\fR  \- Drapes a color raster over an shaded relief or aspect map.
.SH KEYWORDS
display, elevation, relief, hillshade, visualization
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBd.shade.py\fR
.br
\fBd.shade.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBd.shade.py\fR \fBshade\fR=\fIname\fR \fBcolor\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBbrighten\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBshade\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of shaded relief or aspect raster map
.IP "\fBcolor\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of raster to drape over relief raster map
.br
Typically, this raster is elevation or other colorful raster
.IP "\fBbrighten\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Percent to brighten
.br
Options: \fI\-99\-99\fR
.br
Default: \fI0\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fId.shade\fR will drape a color raster map over a shaded relief map.
In place of shaded relief, any raster map can be used including aspect or slope.
The color raster map is usually an elevation raster map with colorful color
table (as opposed to gray scale color table). However, any raster map can be
used including categorical raster maps.
.PP
The advantage of this module is that it allows visualizing the shaded map
without a need to create a new raster which would combine both.
Comparing to creating shaded relief as semi\-transparent overlay on
the color raster map, this module gives result with more saturated colors.
.PP
The input for this module can be created for example using
r.slope.aspect or
r.relief
.br
\&.
.SH NOTES
Refer to the \fId.his\fR help page for more details;
\fId.shade\fR is simply a frontend to that module.
.SH EXAMPLES
In this example, the aspect map in the North Carolina sample
dataset location is used to hillshade the elevation map:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=aspect \-p
d.mon wx0
d.shade shade=aspect color=elevation
\fR
.fi
.PP
Figure: A detail of raster created by applying shading effect of aspect
to elevation raster map from North Carolina dataset elevation map
In this next example, a shaded relief raster map is created
and used to create a colorized hillshade:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=elevation
r.relief input=elevation output=elevation_shaded_relief
d.mon wx1
d.shade shade=elevation_shaded_relief color=elevation
\fR
.fi
Interesting visualizations can be created using different color tables for
elevation raster map, for example using haxby color table.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
d.his,
g.pnmcomp,
r.shade,
r.slope.aspect,
r.relief
.br
wxGUI 3D viewer (NVIZ)
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Unknown; updated to GRASS 5.7 by Michael Barton
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: d.shade source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Display index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
