.TH d.to.rast 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBd.to.rast.py\fR\fR  \- Saves the contents of the active display monitor to a raster map.
.SH KEYWORDS
display, export, raster
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBd.to.rast.py\fR
.br
\fBd.to.rast.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBd.to.rast.py\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fId.to.rast\fR saves the content of the currently selected
monitor into a raster map. The active monitor can be selected
with \fId.mon\fR. \fId.to.rast\fR can be run from GUI
Console tab, too. This module is not sensitive to computational region settings.
.SH EXAMPLE
We combine different raster and vector map layers to create a composite layer
which can be draped over elevation in 3D view.
First, we add a couple of maps to layer manager:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=elevation
d.rast map=elevation
d.rast map=lakes
d.vect map=roadsmajor width=4
d.vect map=roadsmajor width=2 color=yellow
# create a raster map from the display
d.to.rast output=composite
\fR
.fi
.PP
Then uncheck all layers except for elevation and switch to 3D view.
In Data tab, set color map to the newly created composite map.
.PP
.PP
Figure: Raster map created by \fId.to.rast\fR draped over digital elevation model.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
d.out.file,
d.erase,
d.rast,
d.vect,
d.mon
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Anna Petrasova, NCSU OSGeoREL
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: d.to.rast source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Display index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
