.TH d.where 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBd.where\fR\fR  \- Identifies the geographic coordinates associated with point locations given in display coordinates.
.SH KEYWORDS
display, sampling, position, querying
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBd.where\fR
.br
\fBd.where \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBd.where\fR [\-\fBdlwf\fR]  [\fBat\fR=\fIx,y\fR[,\fIx,y\fR,...]]   [\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-d\fR" 4m
.br
Output lat/long in decimal degree
.IP "\fB\-l\fR" 4m
.br
Output lat/long referenced to current ellipsoid
.IP "\fB\-w\fR" 4m
.br
Output lat/long referenced to WGS84 ellipsoid using datum transformation parameters defined in current location (if available)
.IP "\fB\-f\fR" 4m
.br
Output frame coordinates of current display monitor (percentage)
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBat\fR=\fIx,y[,\fIx,y\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Display coordinates to convert
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
File from which to read coordinates (\(dq\-\(dq to read from stdin)
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fId.where\fR is an \fIinteractive\fR program that
allows the user, using the pointing device (mouse), to
identify the geographic coordinates associated with point
locations within the current geographic region in the
active display frame on the graphics monitor.
.PP
Each mouse click will output the easting and northing of the point
currently located beneath the mouse pointer.
A mouse\-button menu is presented so the user knows which
mouse buttons to use. The output is always printed to the
terminal screen; if the output is redirected into a file,
it will be written to the file as well.
.PP
Mouse buttons:
.br
.nf
\fC
     Left:   where am i
     Middle: draw to/from here
     Right:  quit this
\fR
.fi
The left mouse button prints the coordinates at the selected point,
the middle mouse button allows you to query two points (they are connected
by a line for convenience). Use the right mouse button to exit the module.
.SH NOTES
This program uses the current geographic region setting and active frame.
It is not necessary, although useful, to have displayed a map in the current
frame before running \fId.where\fR. The \fB\-d\fR flag allows the user to
optionally output latitude/longitude coordinates pair(s) in decimal degree
rather than DD:MM:SS format. The \fB\-w\fR flag is only valid
if a datum is defined for the current location.
If the \fB\-f\fR flag is given the x,y frame coordinates of the active display
monitor will be returned (as a percentage, 0,0 is bottom left).
.SH EXAMPLE
Query position in map (North Carolina sample dataset):
.br
.nf
\fC
d.rast elevation
d.where
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
d.what.rast,
d.what.vect,
g.region,
v.what.rast,
v.what.vect
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
James Westervelt,
.br
Michael Shapiro,
.br
U.S. Army Construction Engineering
Research Laboratory
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: d.where source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Display index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
