.TH database 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
.PP
\fBGeographic Resources Analysis Support System\fR, commonly
referred to as GRASS GIS, is a Geographic
Information System (GIS) used for geospatial data management and
analysis, image processing, graphics/maps production, spatial
modeling, and visualization. GRASS is currently used in academic and
commercial settings around the world, as well as by many governmental
agencies and environmental consulting companies.
.PP
This reference manual details the use of modules distributed with
Geographic Resources Analysis Support System (GRASS), an open source
(GNU GPLed), image
processing and geographic information system (GIS).
Go to database introduction | topics
.PP
Go back to help overview
.SS Database commands:
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
db.columns
T}	 	T{
List all columns for a given table.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.connect
T}	 	T{
Prints/sets general DB connection for current mapset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.copy
T}	 	T{
Copy a table.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.createdb
T}	 	T{
Creates an empty database.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.databases
T}	 	T{
Lists all databases for a given driver and location.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.describe
T}	 	T{
Describes a table in detail.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.drivers
T}	 	T{
Lists all database drivers.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.dropcolumn
T}	 	T{
Drops a column from selected attribute table.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.dropdb
T}	 	T{
Removes an existing database.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.droptable
T}	 	T{
Drops an attribute table.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.execute
T}	 	T{
Executes any SQL statement.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.in.ogr
T}	 	T{
Imports attribute tables in various formats.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.login
T}	 	T{
Sets user/password for DB driver/database.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.out.ogr
T}	 	T{
Exports attribute tables into various formats.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.select
T}	 	T{
Selects data from attribute table.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.tables
T}	 	T{
Lists all tables for a given database.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.test
T}	 	T{
Test database driver, database must exist and set by db.connect.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.univar
T}	 	T{
Calculates univariate statistics on selected table column.
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
