.TH database_graphical 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
\&.img\-list {
margin: 0;
padding: 0;
list\-style\-type: none;
}
\&.img\-list li {
padding: 5px;
overflow: auto;
}
\&.img\-list li:hover {
background\-color: #eee;
}
\&.img\-list li a {
color: initial;
text\-decoration: none;
display: block;
}
\&.img\-list li img {
width: 10%;
float: left;
margin: 0 15px 0 0;
background: white;
object\-fit: scale\-down;
}
\&.img\-list li img.default\-img {
max\-height: 5ex;
}
\&.img\-list li .desc {
margin: 0px;
}
\&.img\-list li .name {
margin: 5px;
display: block;
color: #409940;
font\-weight: bold;
font\-style: italic;
}
.SH Graphical index of GRASS GIS modules
Go to database introduction | topics
.PP
.SS Database modules:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCdb.columns\fR \fCList all columns for a given table.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCdb.connect\fR \fCPrints/sets general DB connection for current mapset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCdb.copy\fR \fCCopy a table.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCdb.createdb\fR \fCCreates an empty database.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCdb.databases\fR \fCLists all databases for a given driver and location.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCdb.describe\fR \fCDescribes a table in detail.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCdb.drivers\fR \fCLists all database drivers.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCdb.dropcolumn\fR \fCDrops a column from selected attribute table.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCdb.dropdb\fR \fCRemoves an existing database.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCdb.droptable\fR \fCDrops an attribute table.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCdb.execute\fR \fCExecutes any SQL statement.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCdb.in.ogr\fR \fCImports attribute tables in various formats.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCdb.login\fR \fCSets user/password for DB driver/database.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCdb.out.ogr\fR \fCExports attribute tables into various formats.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCdb.select\fR \fCSelects data from attribute table.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCdb.tables\fR \fCLists all tables for a given database.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCdb.test\fR \fCTest database driver, database must exist and set by db.connect.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCdb.univar\fR \fCCalculates univariate statistics on selected table column.\fR
.RE
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
