.TH db.connect 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBdb.connect\fR\fR  \- Prints/sets general DB connection for current mapset.
.SH KEYWORDS
database, attribute table, connection settings
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdb.connect\fR
.br
\fBdb.connect \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBdb.connect\fR [\-\fBpgcd\fR]  [\fBdriver\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBdatabase\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBschema\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBgroup\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-p\fR" 4m
.br
Print current connection parameters and exit
.br
Substitute variables in database settings
.IP "\fB\-g\fR" 4m
.br
Print current connection parameters using shell style and exit
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 4m
.br
Check connection parameters, set if uninitialized, and exit
.IP "\fB\-d\fR" 4m
.br
Set from default settings and exit
.br
Overwrite current settings if already initialized
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBdriver\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of database driver
.br
Options: \fIdbf, odbc, ogr, pg, sqlite\fR
.br
Default: \fIsqlite\fR
.IP "\fBdatabase\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of database
.br
Default: \fI$GISDBASE/$LOCATION_NAME/$MAPSET/sqlite/sqlite.db\fR
.IP "\fBschema\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Database schema
.br
Do not use this option if schemas are not supported by driver/database server
.IP "\fBgroup\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Default group of database users to which select privilege is granted
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIdb.connect\fR allows the user to set database connection parameters.
These parameters are then taken as default values by modules so that the
user does not need to enter the parameters each time.
.PP
The default database backend in GRASS GIS 7
is SQLite.
.SH NOTES
Values are stored in the mapset\(cqs VAR file;
the connection is not tested for validity.
.PP
The \fB\-p\fR flag will display the current connection parameters.
.PP
The \fB\-c\fR flag will silently check if the connection parameters have
been set, and if not will set them to use GRASS\(cqs default values.
(useful in scripts before you attempt to create a new database table)
.PP
To connect a vector map to a database table,
use \fIv.db.connect\fR or
\fIv.db.addtable\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS SQLite (default backend)
Local storage:
.br
.br
.nf
\fC
db.connect \-d
db.connect \-p
db.tables \-p
\fR
.fi
.PP
The SQLite database file is created automatically when used the first time.
.PP
See SQLite database driver for details.
.SS PostgreSQL (local connection)
Local storage, database tables stored in database \(dqmydb\(dq
(may require the use of \fIdb.login\fR):
.br
.br
.nf
\fC
db.connect driver=pg database=mydb
db.login user=myname pass=secret
db.connect \-p
db.tables \-p
\fR
.fi
.PP
See PostgreSQL database driver for details.
.SS PostgreSQL (network connection)
Network storage, database tables stored in database \(dqmydb\(dq
(may require the use of \fIdb.login\fR):
.br
.br
.nf
\fC
db.connect driver=pg database=mydb
db.login user=myname pass=secret host=myserver.com port=6666
db.connect \-p
db.tables \-p
\fR
.fi
.PP
See PostgreSQL database driver for details.
.SS MySQL (local connection)
Local storage, database tables stored in database \(dqmydb\(dq (may require
the use of \fIdb.login\fR):
.br
.br
.nf
\fC
db.connect driver=mysql database=mydb
db.login user=myname pass=secret
db.connect \-p
db.tables \-p
\fR
.fi
.PP
See MySQL database driver for details.
.SS MySQL (network connection)
Network storage, database tables stored in database \(dqmydb\(dq
(may require the use of \fIdb.login\fR):
.br
.br
.nf
\fC
db.connect driver=mysql database=mydb
db.login user=myname pass=secret host=myserver.com
db.connect \-p
db.tables \-p
\fR
.fi
.PP
See MySQL database driver for details.
.SS ODBC
Network storage, database tables stored in database \(dqmydb\(dq
(may require the use of \fIdb.login\fR):
.br
.br
.nf
\fC
db.connect driver=odbc database=mydb
db.login user=myname pass=secret
db.connect \-p
db.tables \-p
\fR
.fi
.PP
See ODBC database driver for details.
.SS DBF (local, not recommended)
Local storage (the dbf/ subdirectory in the mapset must exist or must be
created by the user):
.br
.br
.nf
\fC
db.connect driver=dbf database=\(cq$GISDBASE/$LOCATION_NAME/$MAPSET/dbf/\(cq
db.tables \-p
\fR
.fi
.PP
See DBF database driver for details.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
db.columns,
db.copy,
db.drivers,
db.login,
db.tables,
v.db.addtable,
v.db.connect
\fR
.PP
GRASS SQL interface
.SH AUTHORS
Main author: Radim Blazek, ITC\-Irst, Trento, Italy
.br
GRASS 7 improvements: Martin Landa, Markus Metz
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: db.connect source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Database index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
