.TH display_graphical 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
\&.img\-list {
margin: 0;
padding: 0;
list\-style\-type: none;
}
\&.img\-list li {
padding: 5px;
overflow: auto;
}
\&.img\-list li:hover {
background\-color: #eee;
}
\&.img\-list li a {
color: initial;
text\-decoration: none;
display: block;
}
\&.img\-list li img {
width: 10%;
float: left;
margin: 0 15px 0 0;
background: white;
object\-fit: scale\-down;
}
\&.img\-list li img.default\-img {
max\-height: 5ex;
}
\&.img\-list li .desc {
margin: 0px;
}
\&.img\-list li .name {
margin: 5px;
display: block;
color: #409940;
font\-weight: bold;
font\-style: italic;
}
.SH Graphical index of GRASS GIS modules
Go to display introduction | topics
.PP
.SS Display modules:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.barscale\fR \fCDisplays a barscale on the graphics monitor.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.colorlist\fR \fCOutputs a list of all available display colors.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.colortable\fR \fCDisplays the color table associated with a raster map layer.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.correlate\fR \fCPrints a graph of the correlation between raster maps (in pairs).\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.erase\fR \fCErases the contents of the active graphics display frame with user defined color.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.font\fR \fCSelects the font in which text will be displayed on the user\(cqs graphics monitor.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.fontlist\fR \fCLists the available fonts.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.frame\fR \fCManages display frames on the user\(cqs graphics monitor.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.geodesic\fR \fCDisplays a geodesic line, tracing the shortest distance between two geographic points along a great circle, in a longitude/latitude data set.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.graph\fR \fCProgram for generating and displaying simple graphics on the display monitor.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.grid\fR \fCOverlays a user\-specified grid in the active display frame on the graphics monitor.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.his\fR \fCDisplays the result obtained by combining hue, intensity, and saturation (HIS) values from user\-specified input raster map layers.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.histogram\fR \fCDisplays a histogram in the form of a pie or bar chart for a user\-specified raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.info\fR \fCDisplays information about the active display monitor.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.labels\fR \fCDisplays text labels (created with v.label) to the active frame on the graphics monitor.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.legend\fR \fCDisplays a legend for a 2D or 3D raster map in the active frame of the graphics monitor.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.legend.vect\fR \fCDisplays a vector legend in the active graphics frame.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.linegraph\fR \fCGenerates and displays simple line graphs in the active graphics monitor display frame.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.mon\fR \fCControls graphics display monitors from the command line.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.northarrow\fR \fCDisplays a north arrow on the graphics monitor.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.out.file\fR \fCSaves the contents of the active display monitor to a graphics file.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.path\fR \fCFinds shortest path for selected starting and ending node.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.polar\fR \fCDraws polar diagram of angle map such as aspect or flow directions\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.profile\fR \fCPlots profile of a transect.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.rast.arrow\fR \fCDraws arrows representing cell aspect direction for a raster map containing aspect data.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.rast.edit\fR \fCEdits cell values in a raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.rast\fR \fCDisplays user\-specified raster map in the active graphics frame.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.rast.leg\fR \fCDisplays a raster map and its legend on a graphics window\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.rast.num\fR \fCOverlays cell category values on a raster map displayed in the active graphics frame.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.redraw\fR \fCRedraws the content of currently selected monitor.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.rgb\fR \fCDisplays three user\-specified raster maps as red, green, and blue overlays in the active graphics frame.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.rhumbline\fR \fCDisplays the rhumbline joining two longitude/latitude coordinates.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.shade\fR \fCDrapes a color raster over an shaded relief or aspect map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.text\fR \fCDraws text in the active display frame on the graphics monitor using the current font.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.title\fR \fCCreate a TITLE for a raster map in a form suitable for display with d.text.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.to.rast\fR \fCSaves the contents of the active display monitor to a raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.vect.chart\fR \fCDisplays charts of vector data in the active frame on the graphics monitor.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.vect\fR \fCDisplays user\-specified vector map in the active graphics frame.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.vect.thematic\fR \fCDisplays a thematic vector map in the active graphics frame.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.what.rast\fR \fCAllows the user to interactively query raster map layers at user\-selected locations.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.what.vect\fR \fCAllows the user to interactively query vector map layers at user\-selected locations.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCd.where\fR \fCIdentifies the geographic coordinates associated with point locations given in display coordinates.\fR
.RE
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
