.TH display 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
.PP
\fBGeographic Resources Analysis Support System\fR, commonly
referred to as GRASS GIS, is a Geographic
Information System (GIS) used for geospatial data management and
analysis, image processing, graphics/maps production, spatial
modeling, and visualization. GRASS is currently used in academic and
commercial settings around the world, as well as by many governmental
agencies and environmental consulting companies.
.PP
This reference manual details the use of modules distributed with
Geographic Resources Analysis Support System (GRASS), an open source
(GNU GPLed), image
processing and geographic information system (GIS).
Go back to help overview
.SS Display commands:
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
d.barscale
T}	 	T{
Displays a barscale on the graphics monitor.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.colorlist
T}	 	T{
Outputs a list of all available display colors.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.colortable
T}	 	T{
Displays the color table associated with a raster map layer.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.correlate
T}	 	T{
Prints a graph of the correlation between raster maps (in pairs).
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.erase
T}	 	T{
Erases the contents of the active graphics display frame with user defined color.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.font
T}	 	T{
Selects the font in which text will be displayed on the user\(cqs graphics monitor.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.fontlist
T}	 	T{
Lists the available fonts.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.frame
T}	 	T{
Manages display frames on the user\(cqs graphics monitor.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.geodesic
T}	 	T{
Displays a geodesic line, tracing the shortest distance between two geographic points along a great circle, in a longitude/latitude data set.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.graph
T}	 	T{
Program for generating and displaying simple graphics on the display monitor.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.grid
T}	 	T{
Overlays a user\-specified grid in the active display frame on the graphics monitor.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.his
T}	 	T{
Displays the result obtained by combining hue, intensity, and saturation (HIS) values from user\-specified input raster map layers.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.histogram
T}	 	T{
Displays a histogram in the form of a pie or bar chart for a user\-specified raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.info
T}	 	T{
Displays information about the active display monitor.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.labels
T}	 	T{
Displays text labels (created with v.label) to the active frame on the graphics monitor.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.legend
T}	 	T{
Displays a legend for a 2D or 3D raster map in the active frame of the graphics monitor.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.legend.vect
T}	 	T{
Displays a vector legend in the active graphics frame.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.linegraph
T}	 	T{
Generates and displays simple line graphs in the active graphics monitor display frame.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.mon
T}	 	T{
Controls graphics display monitors from the command line.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.northarrow
T}	 	T{
Displays a north arrow on the graphics monitor.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.out.file
T}	 	T{
Saves the contents of the active display monitor to a graphics file.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.path
T}	 	T{
Finds shortest path for selected starting and ending node.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.polar
T}	 	T{
Draws polar diagram of angle map such as aspect or flow directions
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.profile
T}	 	T{
Plots profile of a transect.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.rast.arrow
T}	 	T{
Draws arrows representing cell aspect direction for a raster map containing aspect data.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.rast.edit
T}	 	T{
Edits cell values in a raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.rast
T}	 	T{
Displays user\-specified raster map in the active graphics frame.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.rast.leg
T}	 	T{
Displays a raster map and its legend on a graphics window
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.rast.num
T}	 	T{
Overlays cell category values on a raster map displayed in the active graphics frame.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.redraw
T}	 	T{
Redraws the content of currently selected monitor.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.rgb
T}	 	T{
Displays three user\-specified raster maps as red, green, and blue overlays in the active graphics frame.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.rhumbline
T}	 	T{
Displays the rhumbline joining two longitude/latitude coordinates.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.shade
T}	 	T{
Drapes a color raster over an shaded relief or aspect map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.text
T}	 	T{
Draws text in the active display frame on the graphics monitor using the current font.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.title
T}	 	T{
Create a TITLE for a raster map in a form suitable for display with d.text.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.to.rast
T}	 	T{
Saves the contents of the active display monitor to a raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.vect.chart
T}	 	T{
Displays charts of vector data in the active frame on the graphics monitor.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.vect
T}	 	T{
Displays user\-specified vector map in the active graphics frame.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.vect.thematic
T}	 	T{
Displays a thematic vector map in the active graphics frame.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.what.rast
T}	 	T{
Allows the user to interactively query raster map layers at user\-selected locations.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.what.vect
T}	 	T{
Allows the user to interactively query vector map layers at user\-selected locations.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.where
T}	 	T{
Identifies the geographic coordinates associated with point locations given in display coordinates.
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
