.TH g.access 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBg.access\fR\fR  \- Controls access to the current mapset for other users on the system.
.br
If no option given, prints current status.
.SH KEYWORDS
general, map management, permission
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBg.access\fR
.br
\fBg.access \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBg.access\fR  [\fBgroup\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBother\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBgroup\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Access for group
.br
Options: \fIgrant, revoke\fR
.IP "\fBother\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Access for others
.br
Options: \fIgrant, revoke\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program allows the user to control access to the
current mapset.  Normally, any user can read data from any
GRASS mapset. But sometimes it is desirable to prohibit
access to certain sensitive data. The \fIg.access\fR
command allows a user to restrict read and execute access
to the current mapset (see UNIX \fIchmod\fR command).
\fIg.access\fR will not modify write access to the
current mapset.
.PP
The user may, for example, allow only users in the same
UNIX group to read data files in the mapset, or restrict
the mapset to personal use only.
.SH NOTES
.PP
Under GRASS, access to the mapset PERMANENT must be open to
all users.  This is because GRASS looks for the user\(cqs default geographic
region definition settings and the location TITLE in files that are stored
under the PERMANENT mapset directory.  The \fIg.access\fR command,
therefore, will not allow you to restrict access to the PERMANENT mapset.
.PP
The \fIg.mapsets\fR command isn\(cqt smart
enough to tell if access to a specified mapset is restricted, and the user
is therefore allowed to include the names of restricted mapsets in his
search path.  However, the data in a restricted mapset is still protected;
any attempts to look for or use data in a restricted mapset will fail.  The
user will simply not see any data listed for a restricted mapset.
.PP
UNIX filesystem access controls and \fIg.access\fR actions are not
supported by MS\-Windows.
.SH SEE ALSO
UNIX manual entries for \fIchmod(1)\fR and \fIgroup(5)\fR
.br
\fIg.mapsets\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Shapiro,
U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
g.access source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
General index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
