.TH g.gisenv 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBg.gisenv\fR\fR  \- Outputs and modifies the user\(cqs current GRASS variable settings.
.br
Prints all defined GRASS variables if no option is given.
.SH KEYWORDS
general, settings, variables, scripts
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBg.gisenv\fR
.br
\fBg.gisenv \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBg.gisenv\fR [\-\fBsn\fR]  [\fBget\fR=\fIvariable\fR[,\fIvariable\fR,...]]   [\fBset\fR=\fI\(dqvariable=value\(dq\fR]   [\fBunset\fR=\fIvariable\fR[,\fIvariable\fR,...]]   [\fBstore\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBseparator\fR=\fIcharacter\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-s\fR" 4m
.br
Use shell syntax (for \(dqeval\(dq)
.IP "\fB\-n\fR" 4m
.br
Do not use shell syntax
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBget\fR=\fIvariable[,\fIvariable\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
GRASS variable to get
.IP "\fBset\fR=\fI\(dqvariable=value\(dq\fR" 4m
.br
GRASS variable to set
.IP "\fBunset\fR=\fIvariable[,\fIvariable\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
GRASS variable to unset
.IP "\fBstore\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Where GRASS variable is stored
.br
Options: \fIgisrc, mapset\fR
.br
Default: \fIgisrc\fR
.IP "\fBseparator\fR=\fIcharacter\fR" 4m
.br
Separator for multiple GRASS variables
.br
Special characters: pipe, comma, space, tab, newline
.br
Default: \fInewline\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
When a user runs GRASS, certain variables are set specifying the GRASS
data base, location, mapset, peripheral device drivers, etc., being
used in the current GRASS session. These variable name settings are
recognized as long as the user is running a GRASS session.
.SH OPTIONS
No prompts are given to the user when running \fIg.gisenv\fR.
.PP
If run without arguments, \fIg.gisenv\fR lists all of the user\(cqs
current GRASS variable settings. Results are sent to standard output,
and may look like this:
.br
.nf
\fC
GISDBASE=/opt/grassdata/
LOCATION_NAME=nc_spm_08_grass7
MAPSET=/user1
GUI=gui
\fR
.fi
.PP
If the user specifies a \fBget=\fR\fIvariable_name\fR on the
command line
.br
.nf
\fC
g.gisenv MAPSET
\fR
.fi
only the value for that particular GRASS variable is output to
standard output. Possible variable names depend on the user\(cqs system,
see variables list for details. Note that
the variable names are case\-insensitive.
.PP
While other variables may be associated with each GRASS session (e.g.,
GRASS_GUI, GIS_LOCK, and other variables), those stated below
are essential.
.IP "\fIGISDBASE\fR " 4m
.br
The \fIGISDBASE\fR is a directory in which all users\(cq GRASS
data are stored. Within the \fIGISDBASE\fR, data are segregated
into subdirectories (called \(dqlocations\(dq) based on the map
coordinate system used and the geographic extent of the data.  Each
\(dqlocation\(dq directory itself contains subdirectories called
\(dqmapsets\(dq; each \(dqmapset\(dq stores \(dqdata base
elements\(dq \- the directories (e.g.,
the cell, cellhd, vector, etc., directories)
in which GRASS data files are actually stored.
.IP "\fILOCATION_NAME\fR  " 4m
.br
The user must choose to work with the data under a single GRASS
location within any given GRASS session; this location is then called
the \fIcurrent GRASS location\fR, and is specified by the variable
\fILOCATION_NAME\fR. The \fILOCATION_NAME\fR is the GRASS data
base location whose data will be affected by any GRASS commands issued
during the user\(cqs current GRASS session, and is a subdirectory of the
current \fIGISDBASE\fR. Each \(dqlocation\(dq directory can
contain multiple \(dqmapset\(dq directories (including the special
mapset \fIPERMANENT\fR).  Maps stored under the same
GRASS \fILOCATION_NAME\fR (and/or within the same \fIMAPSET\fR)
must use the same coordinate system and typically fall within the
boundaries of the same geographic region (aka, \(dqlocation\(dq).
.IP "\fIMAPSET\fR  " 4m
.br
Each \(dqmapset\(dq contains a set of maps relevant to the
\fILOCATION_NAME\fR directory in which it appears.
Each \fILOCATION_NAME\fR can contain multiple mapsets. (Mapsets
which fall under the same \fILOCATION_NAME\fR all contain data
geographically relevant to the \fILOCATION_NAME\fR, and all store
data in the same map coordinate system.  Frequently, maps are placed
into different mapsets to distinguish file ownership \- e.g., each user
might have one or more own mapset(s), storing any maps that the user has
created and/or are relevant to the own work.) During each GRASS session, the
user must choose one mapset to be the \fIcurrent mapset\fR; the current
mapset setting is given by \fIMAPSET\fR, and is a subdirectory
of \fILOCATION_NAME\fR.  During a single GRASS session, the user
can use available data in any of the mapsets stored under the
current \fILOCATION_NAME\fR directory that are in the user\(cqs
mapset search path and accessible by the user.  However, within a
single GRASS session, the user only has \fIwrite\fR access to data
stored under the \fIcurrent mapset\fR (specified by the
variable \fIMAPSET\fR).
.PP
Each \(dqmapset\(dq stores GRASS data base elements (i.e., the
directories in which GRASS data files are stored).  Any maps created
or modified by the user in the current GRASS session will be stored
here. The \fIMAPSET\fR directory \fIPERMANENT\fR is generally
reserved for the set of maps that form the base set for all users
working under each \fILOCATION_NAME\fR.
.PP
Once within a GRASS session, GRASS users have access only to the data
under a single GRASS data base directory (the \fIcurrent GRASS data
base\fR, specified by the variable \fIGISDBASE\fR), and to a
single GRASS location directory (the \fIcurrent location\fR,
specified by the variable \fILOCATION_NAME\fR).  Within a single
session, the user may only \fImodify\fR the data in the
\fIcurrent mapset\fR (specified by the variable
\fIMAPSET\fR), but may \fIuse\fR data available under other
mapsets under the same \fILOCATION_NAME\fR.
.PP
All of these names must be legal names on the user\(cqs current system.
.PP
The full path to the current mapset is determined
from \fIGISDBASE\fR, \fILOCATION_NAME\fR, \fIMAPSET\fR
variables, in the example
above: /opt/grassdata/spearfish/PERMANENT. The full path can
be printed using \fIg.gisenv\fR by providing multiple variables:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.gisenv get=GISDBASE,LOCATION_NAME,MAPSET sep=\(cq/\(cq
/opt/grassdata/nc_spm_08_grass7/user1
\fR
.fi
.SH NOTES
The output from
\fIg.gisenv\fR
when invoked without arguments is directly usable by Bash.  The
following command will cast each variable into the UNIX environment:
.br
.nf
\fC
eval \(gag.gisenv\(ga
\fR
.fi
This works only for \fIBash\fR, \fIsh\fR, \fIksh\fR, etc. The format of the output is not
compatible with some other UNIX shells.
.PP
By default the GRASS variables are stored in \fIgisrc\fR file
(defined by environmental
variable \fIGISRC\fR). If \fBstore=mapset\fR is given than the
variables are stored in $GISDBASE/$LOCATION_NAME/$MAPSET/VAR.
.SS GRASS Debugging
To print debugging messages, the variable \fIDEBUG\fR must be set to level
equal or greater than 0:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.gisenv set=\(dqDEBUG=3\(dq
\fR
.fi
Levels: (recommended levels)
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
0 \- silence
.IP \(bu 4n
1 \- message is printed once or few times per module
.IP \(bu 4n
3 \- each row (raster) or line (vector)
.IP \(bu 4n
5 \- each cell (raster) or point (vector)
.RE
To disable debugging messages:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.gisenv unset=\(dqDEBUG\(dq
\fR
.fi
The variable DEBUG controls debugging messages from GRASS libraries
and modules.
.PP
Similarly \fIWX_DEBUG\fR controls debugging messages
from wxGUI.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
g.access,
g.filename,
g.findfile,
g.mapsets
\fR
.PP
See also variables list
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Shapiro,
U.S.Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: g.gisenv source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
General index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
