.TH g.gui.mapswipe 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBg.gui.mapswipe\fR\fR  \- Interactively compares two maps by swiping a visibility bar.
.SH KEYWORDS
general, GUI, display
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBg.gui.mapswipe\fR
.br
\fBg.gui.mapswipe \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBg.gui.mapswipe\fR  [\fBfirst\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBsecond\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBmode\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBfirst\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
First (top/right) raster map
.IP "\fBsecond\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Second (bottom/left) raster map
.IP "\fBmode\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
View mode
.br
Options: \fIswipe, mirror\fR
.br
Default: \fIswipe\fR
.br
\fBswipe\fR: swiping the upper map layer to show the map layer below
.br
\fBmirror\fR: synchronized maps side by side
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBMap Swipe\fR is a \fIwxGUI\fR component
which allows the user to interactively compare two raster maps of the same
area by revealing different parts of the raster maps.
It is useful e.g. for comparing raster maps from different time periods.
Map Swipe can be launched from the menu File \-> Map Swipe.
.PP
Map Swipe allows you to:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
switch orientation of the swipe line (horizontal or vertical)
.IP \(bu 4n
zooming, panning
.IP \(bu 4n
automatically load maps when opening Map Swipe with two selected raster maps in Layer Manager
.IP \(bu 4n
compare 2 raster maps or load different combinations of raster
and vector maps and set transparency (advanced mode)
.IP \(bu 4n
save display to graphics file
.IP \(bu 4n
display text labels with map names
.IP \(bu 4n
choose between \(cqswipe\(cq mode (default) and \(cqmirror\(cq mode (synchronized maps displayed side by side)
.IP \(bu 4n
change the appearance of cursor in \(cqmirror\(cq mode (available in Map Swipe settings)
.RE
.br
.br
Pre and post disaster images of the tsunami in Japan in 2011. The upper MODIS image
taken on February 26, 2011, shows the coastline under normal conditions while the lower
MODIS image on March 13, 2011, shows a clear view of tsunami flooding along the coastline.
Water, black and dark blue in these false\-color images, still covers the ground as much
as five kilometers (three miles) from the coast.
Source: Earth Observatory/NASA
.br
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
wxGUI
.br
wxGUI components
\fR
.PP
See also the user wiki page.
.SH AUTHOR
Anna Kratochvilova,
Czech Technical University in Prague, Czech Republic
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: wxGUI Map Swipe source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
GUI index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
