.TH g.mapset 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBg.mapset\fR\fR  \- Changes/reports current mapset.
.br
Optionally create new mapset or list available mapsets in given location.
.SH KEYWORDS
general, settings
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBg.mapset\fR
.br
\fBg.mapset \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBg.mapset\fR [\-\fBclp\fR] \fBmapset\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBlocation\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBdbase\fR=\fIpath\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 4m
.br
Create mapset if it doesn\(cqt exist
.IP "\fB\-l\fR" 4m
.br
List available mapsets and exit
.IP "\fB\-p\fR" 4m
.br
Print current mapset and exit
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmapset\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of mapset (default: current search path)
.br
Name of mapset where to switch
.IP "\fBlocation\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Location name
.br
Location name (not location path)
.IP "\fBdbase\fR=\fIpath\fR" 4m
.br
GRASS GIS database directory
.br
Default: path to the current GRASS GIS database
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIg.mapset\fR changes the current working MAPSET, LOCATION, or GISDBASE.
This is a fairly radical maneuver to run mid\-session, take care when running
the GUI at the same time.
.PP
With \fIg.mapset\fR, the shell history (i.e. .bash_history file
of the initial location will be used to record the command history.
.SH NOTES
By default, the shell continues to use the history for the old mapset.
To change this behaviour the history can be switched to record in the new
mapset\(cqs history file as follows:
.br
.nf
\fC
# bash example
history \-w
history \-r /\(dq$GISDBASE/$LOCATION/$MAPSET\(dq/.bash_history
HISTFILE=/\(dq$GISDBASE/$LOCATION/$MAPSET\(dq/.bash_history
\fR
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Print the name of the current mapset
To print the name of the current mapset, use the \fB\-p\fR command as
shown below:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.mapset \-p
\fR
.fi
.SS List available mapsets
To list available mapsets, use the \fB\-l\fR command as shown below:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.mapset \-l
\fR
.fi
This should list all the mapsets, such as: \(dqlandsat new PERMANENT user1.\(dq
.SS Change the current mapset
To change the current mapset to \(dquser1\(dq use the following command:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.mapset mapset=user1 location=nc_spm_08_grass7
\fR
.fi
You should receive the following message: \(dqMapset switched. Your shell
continues to use the history for the old mapset.\(dq
.SS Create a new mapset
To create a new mapset, use the \fB\-c\fR tag as shown below:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.mapset \-c mapset=new location=nc_spm_08_grass7
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
g.gisenv,
g.mapsets
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Radim Blazek
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
g.mapset source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
General index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
