.TH g.mapsets 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBg.mapsets\fR\fR  \- Modifies/prints the user\(cqs current mapset search path.
.br
Affects the user\(cqs access to data existing under the other mapsets in the current location.
.SH KEYWORDS
general, settings, search path
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBg.mapsets\fR
.br
\fBg.mapsets \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBg.mapsets\fR [\-\fBlps\fR] \fBmapset\fR=\fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR,...] \fBoperation\fR=\fIstring\fR  [\fBseparator\fR=\fIcharacter\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-l\fR" 4m
.br
List all available mapsets in alphabetical order
.IP "\fB\-p\fR" 4m
.br
Print mapsets in current search path
.IP "\fB\-s\fR" 4m
.br
Launch mapset selection GUI dialog
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmapset\fR=\fIname[,\fIname\fR,...]\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of mapset (default: current search path)
.br
Name(s) of existing mapset(s) to add/remove or set
.IP "\fBoperation\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Operation to be performed
.br
Options: \fIset, add, remove\fR
.br
Default: \fIadd\fR
.IP "\fBseparator\fR=\fIcharacter\fR" 4m
.br
Field separator for printing (\-l and \-p flags)
.br
Special characters: pipe, comma, space, tab, newline
.br
Default: \fIspace\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
For basic information about GRASS \fImapset\fR, \fIlocation\fR
and \fIdata base\fR refer to GRASS
Quickstart.
.PP
A \fImapset\fR holds a distinct set of data layers, each relevant
to the same (or a subset of the same) geographic region, and each
drawn in the same map coordinate system.  At the outset of every GRASS
session, the user identifies a GRASS data base, location, and mapset
that are to be the user\(cqs \fIcurrent data base\fR, \fIcurrent
location\fR, and \fIcurrent mapset\fR for the duration of the
session; any maps created by the user during the session will be
stored under the \fIcurrent mapset\fR set at the session\(cqs outset
(see \fIg.mapset\fR [without an \(dqs\(dq]
and \fIg.gisenv\fR for changing the
mapset with a session).
.PP
The user can add, modify, and delete data layers that exist under
their \fIcurrent mapset\fR. Although the user can
also \fIaccess\fR (i.e., use) data that are stored under
\fIother\fR mapsets in the same GRASS location using the
mapname@mapsetname notation or mapset search path, the user
can only make permanent changes (create or modify data)
located in the \fIcurrent mapset\fR.  The user\(cqs
\fImapset search path\fR lists the order in which other mapsets in
the same GRASS location can be searched and their data accessed by the
user. The user can modify the listing and order in which these mapsets
are accessed by modifying the mapset search path; this can be done
using the \fIg.mapsets\fR command. This program allows the user to
use other\(cqs relevant map data without altering the original data
layer, and without taking up disk space with a copy of the original
map. The mapname@mapsetname notation may be used irrespective
of the mapset search path, i.e., any map found in another mapset with
sufficient \fIg.access\fR privileges
may be called in such a manner.
.PP
\fIg.mapsets\fR shows the user available mapsets under the current
GRASS location, lists mapsets to which the user currently has access,
and lists the order in which accessible mapsets will be accessed by
GRASS programs searching for data files.  The user is then given the
opportunity to add or delete mapset names from the search path, or
modify the order in which mapsets will be accessed.
.PP
When the user specifies the name of a data base element file (e.g., a
particular vector map, raster map, imagery
group file, etc.) to a GRASS program, the program searches for the
named file under each of the mapsets listed in the user\(cqs mapset
search path in the order listed there until the program finds a file
of the given name. Users can also specify a file by its mapset, to
make explicit the mapset from which the file is to be drawn; e.g., the
command:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.copy raster=soils@PERMANENT,my_soils
\fR
.fi
ensures that a new file named my_soils is to be a copy of
the file soils from the mapset PERMANENT.
.PP
In each location there is the special mapset \fBPERMANENT\fR included
in the mapset search path, as this mapset typically contains base maps
relevant to many applications. Often, other mapsets which contain sets
of interpreted maps will be likewise included in the user\(cqs mapset search path.
Suppose, for example, that the mapset \fISoil_Maps\fR contains
interpreted soils map layers to which the user wants access. The
mapset \fISoil_Maps\fR should then be included in the user\(cqs
\fIsearch path\fR variable.
.PP
The \fImapset search path\fR is saved as part of the current
mapset. When the user works with that mapset in subsequent GRASS
sessions, the previously saved mapset search path will be used (and
will continue to be used until it is modified by the user
with \fIg.mapsets\fR).
.SH NOTES
By default \fIg.mapsets\fR adds to the current \fImapset search
path\fR mapsets named by \fBmapset\fR option. Alternatively mapsets
can be removed (\fBoperation=remove\fR) from the search path or
defined by \fBoperation=set\fR.
.PP
Users can restrict others\(cq access to their mapset files through use
of \fIg.access\fR. Mapsets to which
access is restricted can still be listed in another\(cqs mapset search
path; however, access to these mapsets will remain restricted.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Selecting mapsets with the graphical mapset manager
Using the \fB\-s\fR flag, a convenient graphical mapset manager can
be opened to select and deselect other mapsets (the actual mapset and
the PERMANENT mapset are always selected):
.br
.nf
\fC
g.mapsets \-s
\fR
.fi
.br
.SS Print available mapsets
All available mapsets in the current location can be printed out by
.br
.nf
\fC
g.mapsets \-l
Available mapsets:
PERMANENT user1 user2
\fR
.fi
.SS Add new mapset
Add mapset \(cquser2\(cq to the current mapset search path
.br
.nf
\fC
g.mapsets mapset=user2 operation=add
\fR
.fi
The current mapset search path is changed accordingly
.br
.nf
\fC
g.mapsets \-p
Accessible mapsets:
user1 user2
\fR
.fi
.SS Overwrite current search path
Overwrite current search path
.br
.nf
\fC
g.mapsets mapset=user1,PERMANENT operation=set
\fR
.fi
.SS Using shortcuts for search path
The current mapset can be defined by a shortcut \(dq.\(dq (dot)
.br
.nf
\fC
g.mapsets mapset=.,PERMANENT operation=set
\fR
.fi
\fINote:\fR The current mapset will be always included in the search
path on the first position even if you change its position or omit the
current mapset from the \fBmapset\fR option.
.br
.nf
\fC
g.mapsets \-p
Accessible mapsets:
user1 PERMANENT
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
g.access,
g.copy,
g.gisenv,
g.list,
g.mapset
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Shapiro, U.S.Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory
.br
Greg Koerper, ManTech Environmental Technology, Inc.
.br
Updated to GRASS 7 by Martin Landa, Czech Technical University in Prague, Czech Republic
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: g.mapsets source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
General index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
