.TH g.message 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBg.message\fR\fR  \- Prints a message, warning, progress info, or fatal error in the GRASS way.
.br
This module should be used in scripts for messages served to user.
.SH KEYWORDS
general, support, scripts
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBg.message\fR
.br
\fBg.message \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBg.message\fR [\-\fBwedpiv\fR] \fBmessage\fR=\fIstring\fR  [\fBdebug\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-w\fR" 4m
.br
Print message as warning
.IP "\fB\-e\fR" 4m
.br
Print message as fatal error
.IP "\fB\-d\fR" 4m
.br
Print message as debug message
.IP "\fB\-p\fR" 4m
.br
Print message as progress info
.IP "\fB\-i\fR" 4m
.br
Print message in all modes except of quiet mode
.br
Message is printed on GRASS_VERBOSE>=1
.IP "\fB\-v\fR" 4m
.br
Print message only in verbose mode
.br
Message is printed only on GRASS_VERBOSE>=3
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmessage\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Text of the message to be printed
.br
Message is printed on GRASS_VERBOSE>=2
.IP "\fBdebug\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Level to use for debug messages
.br
Options: \fI0\-5\fR
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This program is to be used in Shell/Perl/Python scripts, so the author does not
need to use the echo program. The advantage of \fIg.message\fR is
that it formats messages just like other GRASS modules do and that its
functionality is influenced by the GRASS_VERBOSE and
GRASS_MESSAGE_FORMAT environment variables.
.PP
The program can be used for standard informative messages as well as warnings
(\fB\-w\fR flag) and fatal errors (\fB\-e\fR flag). For debugging
purposes, the \fB\-d\fR flag will cause \fIg.message\fR to print a debugging
message at the given level.
.SH NOTES
Messages containing \(dq=\(dq must use the full \fBmessage=\fR syntax so
the parser doesn\(cqt get confused.
.PP
If you want a long message (multi\-line) to be dealt with as a single
paragraph, use a single call to \fIg.message\fR with text split in the
script using the backslash as the last character. (In shell scripts don\(cqt
close the \(dqquote\(dq)
.PP
A blank line may be obtained with
.br
.nf
\fC
g.message message=\(dq\(dq
\fR
.fi
.PP
Redundant whitespace will be stripped away.
.PP
It\(cqs advisable to single quote the messages that are to be printed literally.
It prevents a number of characters (most notably, space and the dollar sign
\(cq$\(cq) from being treated specifically by the shell.
.PP
When it is necessary to include, for example, a variable\(cqs value as part of
the message, the double quotes may be used, which do not deprive the
dollar sign of its special variable\-expansion powers.
.PP
While it is known that the interactive Bash instances may treat the
exclamation mark \(cq!\(cq character specifically (making single quoting
of it necessary), it shouldn\(cqt be the case for the non\-interactive
instances of Bash. Nonetheless, to avoid context\-based confusion later on
you are encouraged to single\-quote messages that do not require
$VARIABLE expansion.
.SS Usage in Python scripts
GRASS
Python Scripting Library defines special wrappers
for \fIg.message\fR.
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
debug() for g.message \-d
.IP \(bu 4n
error() for g.message \-e
.IP \(bu 4n
fatal() for g.message \-e + exit()
.IP \(bu 4n
info() for g.message \-i
.IP \(bu 4n
message() for g.message
.IP \(bu 4n
verbose() for g.message \-v
.IP \(bu 4n
warning() for g.message \-w
.RE
.PP
Note: The Python tab in the \fIwxGUI\fR can be used for entering the
following sample code:
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
import grass.script as gcore
gcore.warning(\(dqThis is a warning\(dq)
\fR
.fi
is identical with
.br
.nf
\fC
g.message \-w message=\(dqThis is a warning\(dq
\fR
.fi
.SS VERBOSITY LEVELS
Controlled by the \(dqGRASS_VERBOSE\(dq environment variable. Typically this
is set using the \fB\-\-quiet\fR or \fB\-\-verbose\fR command line options.
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
0 \- only errors and warnings are printed
.IP \(bu 4n
1 \- progress messages are printed
.IP \(bu 4n
2 \- all module messages are printed
.IP \(bu 4n
3 \- additional verbose messages are printed
.RE
.SS DEBUG LEVELS
Controlled by the \(dqDEBUG\(dq GRASS \fIgisenv\fR variable (set with
\fIg.gisenv\fR).
.br
Recommended levels:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
1 \- message is printed once or few times per module
.IP \(bu 4n
3 \- each row (raster) or line (vector)
.IP \(bu 4n
5 \- each cell (raster) or point (vector)
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
This basic example prints the message \(dqhello\(dq in the console:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.message message=\(dqhello\(dq
\fR
.fi
.PP
To print a message as an error message use the \fB\-e\fR flag:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.message \-e message=\(dqmy error\(dq
\fR
.fi
.PP
To print a message highlighted as a debug message (\(dqD0/0: debug\(dq) in the
console, use the \fB\-d\fR flag. Optionally the debug level can be defined (see
also g.gisenv for details):
.br
.nf
\fC
# Levels: (recommended levels)
#   0 \- silence
#   1 \- message is printed once or few times per module
#   3 \- each row (raster) or line (vector)
#   5 \- each cell (raster) or point (vector)
g.message \-d message=\(dqdebug\(dq debug=0
\fR
.fi
.PP
To print a message highlighted as a warning message (\(dqWARNING: my warning\(dq)
in the console, use the \fB\-w\fR flag:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.message \-w message=\(dqmy warning\(dq
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
GRASS variables and environment variables
.br
g.gisenv,
g.parser
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Jachym Cepicky
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: g.message source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
General index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
