.TH g.mkfontcap 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBg.mkfontcap\fR\fR  \- Generates the font configuration file by scanning various directories for fonts.
.SH KEYWORDS
general
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBg.mkfontcap\fR
.br
\fBg.mkfontcap \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBg.mkfontcap\fR [\-\fBos\fR]  [\fBextradirs\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-o\fR" 4m
.br
Overwrite font configuration file if already existing
.IP "\fB\-s\fR" 4m
.br
Write font configuration file to standard output instead of $GISBASE/etc
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBextradirs\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
List of extra directories to scan
.br
Comma\-separated list of extra directories to scan for Freetype\-compatible fonts as well as the defaults (see documentation)
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIg.mkfontcap\fR is a utilty to generate a GRASS font configuration file
(\(dqfontcap\(dq) containing details of the fonts available on the current system.
If Freetype is not installed,
the font list will be limited to the set of Hershey stroke fonts supplied
with GRASS. With Freetype enabled however, the module will recursively scan
all files within a predefined hierarchy to find Freetype\-compatible scalable
fonts. The list of directories scanned is currently:
.br
.nf
\fC
    /usr/lib/X11/fonts
    /usr/share/X11/fonts
    /usr/share/fonts
    /usr/local/share/fonts
    ${HOME}/Library/Fonts
    /Library/Fonts
    /System/Library/Fonts
    ${WINDIR}/Fonts
\fR
.fi
.PP
These correspond to directories where fonts can be found on some common
operating systems. Extra directories to search can easily by added using the
\fBextradirs\fR parameter, which accepts a comma\-separated list. An extra
directory may optionally contain an environment variable \fIat the start\fR
of the string, if enclosed in ${xxx} syntax (see examples above).
.PP
The module will normally write to the standard fontcap file location,
$GISBASE/etc/fontcap. If the environment variable
GRASS_FONT_CAP is set, the output will instead be written
to the file specified by that variable. This is useful if you don\(cqt have
permission to modify $GISBASE/etc/fontcap: in this case you can
use e.g.
.br
.nf
\fC
# use local file version instead of system copy
GRASS_FONT_CAP=$HOME/.gfontcap
export GRASS_FONT_CAP
g.mkfontcap
\fR
.fi
.PP
to create a personal copy and then to make GRASS use that file
instead of the system copy.
.PP
The output list of fonts is sorted first by type (Stroke fonts first,
followed by Freetype) and within each type by the short name of the font.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
d.font
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Paul Kelly
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: g.mkfontcap source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
General index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
