.TH g.search.modules 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBg.search.modules.py\fR\fR  \- Search in GRASS modules using keywords
.SH KEYWORDS
general, modules, search
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBg.search.modules.py\fR
.br
\fBg.search.modules.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBg.search.modules.py\fR [\-\fBanmkcgj\fR]  [\fBkeyword\fR=\fIstring\fR[,\fIstring\fR,...]]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-a\fR" 4m
.br
Display only modules where all keywords are available (AND), default: OR
.IP "\fB\-n\fR" 4m
.br
Invert selection (logical NOT)
.IP "\fB\-m\fR" 4m
.br
Search in manual pages too (can be slow)
.IP "\fB\-k\fR" 4m
.br
Search only for the exact keyword in module keyword list
.br
Instead of full text search, search only in actual keywords
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 4m
.br
Use colorized (more readable) output to terminal
.IP "\fB\-g\fR" 4m
.br
Shell script format
.IP "\fB\-j\fR" 4m
.br
JSON format
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBkeyword\fR=\fIstring[,\fIstring\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Keyword to be searched
.br
List all modules if not given
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIg.search.module\fR searches for given keyword in GRASS GIS modules name,
description, keywords and optionally manpages, too. Also installed addons are
considered in the search.
.SH NOTES
Multiple keywords may be specified, \fIg.search.modules\fR will search for
all of them.
.SH EXAMPLE
Search all modules, where keywords \fIbuffer\fR OR \fIclip\fR can be found:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.search.modules keyword=buffer,clip
r.circle
    keywords: raster,buffer,geometry,circle
    description: Creates a raster map containing concentric rings around a
                 given point.
r.buffer.lowmem
    keywords: raster,buffer
    description: Creates a raster map showing buffer zones surrounding cells
                 that contain non\-NULL category values. This is the low\-
                 memory alternative to the classic r.buffer module.
r.buffer
    keywords: raster,buffer
    description: Creates a raster map showing buffer zones surrounding cells
                 that contain non\-NULL category values.
\fR
.fi
.PP
Search all modules, where keywords \fIoverlay\fR AND \fIclip\fR can be
found with some fancy terminal output (not shown here):
.br
.nf
\fC
g.search.modules keyword=clip,overlay \-a \-c
v.clip
    keywords: vector,clip,area
    description: Extracts features of input map which overlay features
                 of clip map.
v.overlay
    keywords: vector,geometry,spatial
              query,clip,difference,intersection,union
    description: Overlays two vector maps offering clip, intersection,
                 difference, symmetrical difference, union operators.
\fR
.fi
.PP
Search in manual pages as well:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.search.modules \-m keyword=kapri
db.execute
    keywords: database,attribute table,SQL
    description: Executes any SQL statement. For SELECT statements use
                 \(cqdb.select\(cq.
db.select
    keywords: database,attribute table,SQL
    description: Selects data from attribute table. Performs SQL query
                 statement(s).
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
g.manual
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Jachym Cepicky, OpenGeoLabs s.r.o., Czech Republic: original author
.br
Anika Bettge, mundialis, Germany: addon search added
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
g.search.modules source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
General index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
