.TH general_graphical 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
\&.img\-list {
margin: 0;
padding: 0;
list\-style\-type: none;
}
\&.img\-list li {
padding: 5px;
overflow: auto;
}
\&.img\-list li:hover {
background\-color: #eee;
}
\&.img\-list li a {
color: initial;
text\-decoration: none;
display: block;
}
\&.img\-list li img {
width: 10%;
float: left;
margin: 0 15px 0 0;
background: white;
object\-fit: scale\-down;
}
\&.img\-list li img.default\-img {
max\-height: 5ex;
}
\&.img\-list li .desc {
margin: 0px;
}
\&.img\-list li .name {
margin: 5px;
display: block;
color: #409940;
font\-weight: bold;
font\-style: italic;
}
.SH Graphical index of GRASS GIS modules
.SS General modules:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.access\fR \fCControls access to the current mapset for other users on the system.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.copy\fR \fCCopies available data files in the current mapset search path to the user\(cqs current mapset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.dirseps\fR \fCInternal GRASS utility for converting directory separator characters.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.extension.all\fR \fCRebuilds or removes all locally installed GRASS Addons extensions.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.extension\fR \fCMaintains GRASS Addons extensions in local GRASS installation.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.filename\fR \fCPrints GRASS data base file names.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.findetc\fR \fCSearches for GRASS support files.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.findfile\fR \fCSearches for GRASS data base files and sets variables for the shell.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gisenv\fR \fCOutputs and modifies the user\(cqs current GRASS variable settings.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.animation\fR \fCTool for animating a series of raster and vector maps or a space time raster or vector dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.datacatalog\fR \fCTool for browsing, modifying and managing GRASS maps.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.dbmgr\fR \fCLaunches graphical attribute table manager.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.gcp\fR \fCGeorectifies a map and allows managing Ground Control Points.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.gmodeler\fR \fCGraphical Modeler.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui\fR \fCLaunches a GRASS graphical user interface (GUI) session.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.iclass\fR \fCTool for supervised classification of imagery data.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.image2target\fR \fCGeorectifies a map and allows managing Ground Control Points for 3D correction.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.mapswipe\fR \fCInteractively compares two maps by swiping a visibility bar.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.photo2image\fR \fCCorrects scanning distortions of a paper photo.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.psmap\fR \fCTool for creating hardcopy map outputs.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.rlisetup\fR \fCConfiguration tool for r.li modules.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.timeline\fR \fCAllows comparing temporal datasets by displaying their temporal extents in a plot.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.tplot\fR \fCPlots the values of temporal datasets.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.vdigit\fR \fCInteractive editing and digitization of vector maps.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.list\fR \fCLists available GRASS data base files of the user\-specified data type optionally using the search pattern.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.manual\fR \fCDisplays the manual pages of GRASS modules.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.mapset\fR \fCChanges/reports current mapset.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.mapsets\fR \fCModifies/prints the user\(cqs current mapset search path.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.message\fR \fCPrints a message, warning, progress info, or fatal error in the GRASS way.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.mkfontcap\fR \fCGenerates the font configuration file by scanning various directories for fonts.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.parser\fR \fCProvides automated parser, GUI, and help support for GRASS scipts.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.pnmcomp\fR \fCOverlays multiple PPM image files.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.ppmtopng\fR \fCConverts between PPM/PGM and PNG image formats.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.proj\fR \fCPrints or modifies GRASS projection information files (in various co\-ordinate system descriptions).
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.region\fR \fCManages the boundary definitions for the geographic region.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.remove\fR \fCRemoves data base element files from the user\(cqs current mapset using the search pattern.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.rename\fR \fCRenames data base element files in the user\(cqs current mapset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.search.modules\fR \fCSearch in GRASS modules using keywords\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.tempfile\fR \fCCreates a temporary file and prints it\(cqs file name.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.version\fR \fCDisplays GRASS GIS version info.
.br
\fR
.RE
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
