.TH general 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
.PP
\fBGeographic Resources Analysis Support System\fR, commonly
referred to as GRASS GIS, is a Geographic
Information System (GIS) used for geospatial data management and
analysis, image processing, graphics/maps production, spatial
modeling, and visualization. GRASS is currently used in academic and
commercial settings around the world, as well as by many governmental
agencies and environmental consulting companies.
.PP
This reference manual details the use of modules distributed with
Geographic Resources Analysis Support System (GRASS), an open source
(GNU GPLed), image
processing and geographic information system (GIS).
Go back to help overview
.SS General commands:
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
g.access
T}	 	T{
Controls access to the current mapset for other users on the system.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.copy
T}	 	T{
Copies available data files in the current mapset search path to the user\(cqs current mapset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.dirseps
T}	 	T{
Internal GRASS utility for converting directory separator characters.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.extension.all
T}	 	T{
Rebuilds or removes all locally installed GRASS Addons extensions.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.extension
T}	 	T{
Maintains GRASS Addons extensions in local GRASS installation.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.filename
T}	 	T{
Prints GRASS data base file names.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.findetc
T}	 	T{
Searches for GRASS support files.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.findfile
T}	 	T{
Searches for GRASS data base files and sets variables for the shell.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gisenv
T}	 	T{
Outputs and modifies the user\(cqs current GRASS variable settings.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.animation
T}	 	T{
Tool for animating a series of raster and vector maps or a space time raster or vector dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.datacatalog
T}	 	T{
Tool for browsing, modifying and managing GRASS maps.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.dbmgr
T}	 	T{
Launches graphical attribute table manager.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.gcp
T}	 	T{
Georectifies a map and allows managing Ground Control Points.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.gmodeler
T}	 	T{
Graphical Modeler.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui
T}	 	T{
Launches a GRASS graphical user interface (GUI) session.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.iclass
T}	 	T{
Tool for supervised classification of imagery data.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.image2target
T}	 	T{
Georectifies a map and allows managing Ground Control Points for 3D correction.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.mapswipe
T}	 	T{
Interactively compares two maps by swiping a visibility bar.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.photo2image
T}	 	T{
Corrects scanning distortions of a paper photo.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.psmap
T}	 	T{
Tool for creating hardcopy map outputs.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.rlisetup
T}	 	T{
Configuration tool for r.li modules.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.timeline
T}	 	T{
Allows comparing temporal datasets by displaying their temporal extents in a plot.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.tplot
T}	 	T{
Plots the values of temporal datasets.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.vdigit
T}	 	T{
Interactive editing and digitization of vector maps.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.list
T}	 	T{
Lists available GRASS data base files of the user\-specified data type optionally using the search pattern.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.manual
T}	 	T{
Displays the manual pages of GRASS modules.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.mapset
T}	 	T{
Changes/reports current mapset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.mapsets
T}	 	T{
Modifies/prints the user\(cqs current mapset search path.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.message
T}	 	T{
Prints a message, warning, progress info, or fatal error in the GRASS way.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.mkfontcap
T}	 	T{
Generates the font configuration file by scanning various directories for fonts.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.parser
T}	 	T{
Provides automated parser, GUI, and help support for GRASS scipts.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.pnmcomp
T}	 	T{
Overlays multiple PPM image files.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.ppmtopng
T}	 	T{
Converts between PPM/PGM and PNG image formats.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.proj
T}	 	T{
Prints or modifies GRASS projection information files (in various co\-ordinate system descriptions).
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.region
T}	 	T{
Manages the boundary definitions for the geographic region.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.remove
T}	 	T{
Removes data base element files from the user\(cqs current mapset using the search pattern.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.rename
T}	 	T{
Renames data base element files in the user\(cqs current mapset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.search.modules
T}	 	T{
Search in GRASS modules using keywords
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.tempfile
T}	 	T{
Creates a temporary file and prints it\(cqs file name.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.version
T}	 	T{
Displays GRASS GIS version info.
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
