.TH grass-sqlite 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH SQLite DATABASE DRIVER
The SQLite driver is the default DBMI backend.
.SH Creating a SQLite database
GRASS is automatically creating the SQLite database if it is not yet
existing when the first table is created in the SQLite database. It
is sufficient to define the connection (see next step).
.SH Connecting GRASS to SQLite
The database name \(cqsqlite.db\(cq is at user\(cqs choice.
Also the file storage location can be freely chosen. If the database
does not exist, it will be automatically created when database content
is created:
.br
.nf
\fC
# example for storing DB in mapset directory (keep single quotes):
db.connect driver=sqlite database=\(cq$GISDBASE/$LOCATION_NAME/$MAPSET/sqlite/sqlite.db\(cq
db.connect \-p
\fR
.fi
.SH Supported SQL commands
All SQL commands supported by SQLite (for limitations, see
SQLite help page:
SQL As Understood By SQLite and
Unsupported SQL).
.SH Operators available in conditions
All SQL operators supported by SQLite.
.SH Browsing table data in DB
A convenient SQLite front\-end is sqlitebrowser.
To open a DB file stored within the current mapset,
the following way is suggested (corresponds to above database connection):
.br
.nf
\fC
# fetch GRASS variables as shell environment variables:
eval \(gag.gisenv\(ga
# use double quotes:
sqlitebrowser \(dq$GISDBASE/$LOCATION_NAME/$MAPSET\(dq/sqlite/sqlite.db
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
db.connect,
db.execute,
db.select
.br
.br
SQL support in GRASS GIS
.br
.br
SQLite web site,
SQLite manual,
sqlite \- Management Tools
\fR
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
