.TH grass-odbc 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH ODBC DATABASE DRIVER
Communication between GRASS and ODBC database for attribute management:
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60 lw1 lw60 lw1 lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
GRASS module <\-> 
T}	 	T{
<\-\->
T}	 	T{
ODBC Interface
T}	 	T{
<\-\->
T}	 	T{
RDBMS
T}
.sp 1
T{
\fI\fBGRASS\fR\fR
T}	 	T{
\fI\fBDBMI driver\fR\fR
T}	 	T{
\fI\fBunixODBC\fR\fR
T}	 	T{
\fI\fBODBC driver\fR\fR
T}	 	T{
\fI\fBPostgreSQL\fR\fR
T}
.sp 1
T{
\fI\fBOracle\fR\fR
T}
.sp 1
T{
\fI\fB...\fR\fR
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.SH Supported SQL commands
All SQL commands supported by ODBC.
.SH Operators available in conditions
All SQL operators supported by ODBC.
.SH EXAMPLE
In this example we copy the dbf file of a SHAPE map into ODBC, then connect
GRASS to the ODBC DBMS. Usually the table will be already present in the
DBMS.
.SS Defining the ODBC connection
.SS MS\-Windows
On MS\-Windows, in order to be able to connect, the ODBC connection
needs to be configured using dedicated tools (tool called \(dqODBC Data Source
Administrator\(dq) and give a name to that connection. This name is then used
as database name when accessing from a client via ODBC.
.SS Linux
Configure ODBC driver for selected database (manually or with \(cqODBCConfig\(cq).
ODBC drivers are defined in /etc/odbcinst.ini. Here an example:
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
 [PostgreSQL]
 Description     = ODBC for PostgreSQL
 Driver          = /usr/lib/libodbcpsql.so
 Setup           = /usr/lib/libodbcpsqlS.so
 FileUsage       = 1
\fR
.fi
.PP
Create DSN (data source name). The DSN is used as database name in db.*
modules. Then DSN must be defined in $HOME/.odbc.ini (for this user only) or in
/etc/odbc.ini for (for all users) [watch out for the database name which
appears twice and also for the PostgreSQL protocol version]. Omit blanks at
the beginning of lines:
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
 [grass6test]
 Description             = PostgreSQL
 Driver                  = PostgreSQL
 Trace                   = No
 TraceFile               =
 Database                = grass6test
 Servername              = localhost
 UserName                = neteler
 Password                =
 Port                    = 5432
 Protocol                = 8.0
 ReadOnly                = No
 RowVersioning           = No
 ShowSystemTables        = No
 ShowOidColumn           = No
 FakeOidIndex            = No
 ConnSettings            =
\fR
.fi
Configuration of an DSN without GUI is described on
http://www.unixodbc.org/odbcinst.html,
but odbc.ini and .odbc.ini may be created by the \(cqODBCConfig\(cq tool. You can
easily view your DSN structure by \(cqDataManager\(cq. Configuration with
GUI is described on http://www.unixodbc.org/doc/UserManual/
.PP
To find out about your PostgreSQL protocol, run:
.br
.br
.nf
\fC
psql \-V
\fR
.fi
.SS Using the ODBC driver
Now create a new database if not yet existing:
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
db.createdb driver=odbc database=grass6test
\fR
.fi
.PP
To store a table \(cqmytable.dbf\(cq (here: in current directory) into
PostgreSQL through ODBC, run:
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
db.connect driver=odbc database=grass6test
db.copy from_driver=dbf from_database=./ from_table=mytable \(rs
        to_driver=odbc to_database=grass6test to_table=mytable
\fR
.fi
.PP
Next link the map to the attribute table (now the ODBC table
is used, not the dbf file):
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
v.db.connect map=mytable.shp table=mytable key=ID \(rs
             database=grass6test driver=odbc
v.db.connect \-p
\fR
.fi
.PP
Finally a test: Here we should see the table columns (if the ODBC connection works):
.br
.nf
\fC
db.tables \-p
db.columns table=mytable
\fR
.fi
.PP
Now the table name \(cqmytable\(cq should appear.
.br
Doesn\(cqt work? Check with \(cqisql <databasename>\(cq if the ODBC\-PostgreSQL
connection is really established.
.PP
Note that you can also connect mySQL, Oracle etc. through ODBC to GRASS.
.PP
You can also check the vector map itself concerning a current link to a
table:
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
v.db.connect \-p mytable.shp
\fR
.fi
.PP
which should print the database connection through ODBC to the defined RDBMS.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
db.connect,
v.db.connect,
unixODBC web site,
SQL support in GRASS GIS
\fR
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
