.TH guimodules_graphical 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
\&.img\-list {
margin: 0;
padding: 0;
list\-style\-type: none;
}
\&.img\-list li {
padding: 5px;
overflow: auto;
}
\&.img\-list li:hover {
background\-color: #eee;
}
\&.img\-list li a {
color: initial;
text\-decoration: none;
display: block;
}
\&.img\-list li img {
width: 10%;
float: left;
margin: 0 15px 0 0;
background: white;
object\-fit: scale\-down;
}
\&.img\-list li img.default\-img {
max\-height: 5ex;
}
\&.img\-list li .desc {
margin: 0px;
}
\&.img\-list li .name {
margin: 5px;
display: block;
color: #409940;
font\-weight: bold;
font\-style: italic;
}
.SH Graphical index of GRASS GIS modules
Go to guimodules introduction | topics
.PP
.SS g.gui.* modules:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.animation\fR \fCTool for animating a series of raster and vector maps or a space time raster or vector dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.datacatalog\fR \fCTool for browsing, modifying and managing GRASS maps.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.dbmgr\fR \fCLaunches graphical attribute table manager.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.gcp\fR \fCGeorectifies a map and allows managing Ground Control Points.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.gmodeler\fR \fCGraphical Modeler.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui\fR \fCLaunches a GRASS graphical user interface (GUI) session.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.iclass\fR \fCTool for supervised classification of imagery data.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.image2target\fR \fCGeorectifies a map and allows managing Ground Control Points for 3D correction.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.mapswipe\fR \fCInteractively compares two maps by swiping a visibility bar.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.photo2image\fR \fCCorrects scanning distortions of a paper photo.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.psmap\fR \fCTool for creating hardcopy map outputs.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.rlisetup\fR \fCConfiguration tool for r.li modules.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.timeline\fR \fCAllows comparing temporal datasets by displaying their temporal extents in a plot.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.tplot\fR \fCPlots the values of temporal datasets.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCg.gui.vdigit\fR \fCInteractive editing and digitization of vector maps.\fR
.RE
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
