.TH i.biomass 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBi.biomass\fR\fR  \- Computes biomass growth, precursor of crop yield calculation.
.SH KEYWORDS
imagery, biomass, FPAR, yield
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBi.biomass\fR
.br
\fBi.biomass \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBi.biomass\fR \fBfpar\fR=\fIname\fR \fBlightuse_efficiency\fR=\fIname\fR \fBlatitude\fR=\fIname\fR \fBdayofyear\fR=\fIname\fR \fBtransmissivity_singleway\fR=\fIname\fR \fBwater_availability\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBfpar\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of fPAR raster map
.IP "\fBlightuse_efficiency\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of light use efficiency raster map (UZB:cotton=1.9)
.IP "\fBlatitude\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of degree latitude raster map [dd.ddd]
.IP "\fBdayofyear\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of Day of Year raster map [1\-366]
.IP "\fBtransmissivity_singleway\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of single\-way transmissivity raster map [0.0\-1.0]
.IP "\fBwater_availability\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Value of water availability raster map [0.0\-1.0]
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output daily biomass growth raster map [kg/ha/d]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIi.biomass\fR calculates the biomass growth for a day after [1][2].
Input:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
fPAR, the modified Photosynthetic Active Radiation for crops.
.IP \(bu 4n
Light Use Efficiency [0.0\-1.0], in Uzbekistan cotton is at 1.9 most of the time.
.IP \(bu 4n
Latitude [0.0\-90.0], from \fIr.latlong\fR.
.IP \(bu 4n
DOY [1\-366].
.IP \(bu 4n
Transmissivity of the atmosphere single\-way [0.0\-1.0], mostly around 0.7+ in clear sky.
.IP \(bu 4n
Water availability [0.0\-1.0], possibly using direct output from \fIi.eb.evapfr\fR.
.RE
.SH NOTES
\fIi.biomass\fR can use the output of \fIi.eb.evapfr\fR directly
as water availability input.
.SH TODO
Remove Latitude, DOY and Tsw from input and replace with a raster
input compatible with \fIr.sun\fR output.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
i.eb.evapfr,
r.latlong,
r.sun
\fR
.SH REFERENCES
.PP
[1] Bastiaanssen, W.G.M., Ali, S., 2002. A new crop yield
forecasting model based on satellite measurements applied across the
Indus Basin, Pakistan. Agriculture, Ecosystems and Environment,
94(3):321\-340. (PDF)
.PP
[2] Chemin, Y., Platonov, A., Abdullaev, I., Ul\-Hassan, M. 2005.
Supplementing farm level water productivity assessment by remote
sensing in transition economies. Water International. 30(4):513\-521.
.SH AUTHOR
Yann Chemin, Bec de Mortagne, France
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
i.biomass source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Imagery index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
