.TH i.eb.eta 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBi.eb.eta\fR\fR  \- Actual evapotranspiration for diurnal period (Bastiaanssen, 1995).
.SH KEYWORDS
imagery, energy balance, actual evapotranspiration, SEBAL
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBi.eb.eta\fR
.br
\fBi.eb.eta \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBi.eb.eta\fR \fBnetradiationdiurnal\fR=\fIname\fR \fBevaporativefraction\fR=\fIname\fR \fBtemperature\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBnetradiationdiurnal\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of the diurnal net radiation map [W/m2]
.br
Default: \fIrnetday\fR
.IP "\fBevaporativefraction\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of the evaporative fraction map [\-]
.br
Default: \fIevapfr\fR
.IP "\fBtemperature\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of the surface skin temperature [K]
.br
Default: \fItempk\fR
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of the output actual evapotranspiration layer [mm/d]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIi.eb.eta\fR calculates the actual evapotranspiration (ETa ; mm/d) for
diurnal period after [1], implemented in [3].
It takes input of Diurnal Net Radiation (see \fIr.sun\fR), evaporative fraction (see
\fIi.eb.evapfr\fR) and surface skin temperature.
.SH NOTES
Full ETa processing will need those:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fIi.vi\fR, \fIi.albedo\fR, \fIr.latlong\fR, \fIi.emissivity\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fIi.evapo.potrad\fR (GRASS Addon)
.IP \(bu 4n
\fIi.eb.netrad\fR, \fIi.eb.soilheatflux\fR, \fIi.eb.hsebal01\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fIi.eb.evapfr\fR, \fIi.eb.eta\fR
.RE
(for time integration: \fIi.evapo.time_integration\fR)
.PP
For more details on the algorithms see [1][2][3][4].
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.sun,
i.eb.evapfr,
i.eb.netrad
\fR
.SH REFERENCES
.PP
[1] Bastiaanssen, W.G.M., 1995.
Estimation of Land surface parameters by remote sensing under clear\-sky
conditions. PhD thesis, Wageningen University, Wageningen, The Netherlands.
(PDF)
.PP
[2] Chemin Y., Alexandridis T.A., 2001. Improving spatial resolution of ET
seasonal for irrigated rice in Zhanghe, China. Asian Journal of Geoinformatics.
5(1):3\-11,2004.
.PP
[3] Alexandridis T.K., Cherif I., Chemin Y., Silleos N.G., Stavrinos E.,
Zalidis G.C. Integrated methodology for estimating water use in Mediterranean
agricultural areas. Remote Sensing. 2009, 1, 445\-465.
(PDF)
.PP
[4] Chemin, Y., 2012.
A Distributed Benchmarking Framework for Actual ET Models,
in: Irmak, A. (Ed.), Evapotranspiration \- Remote Sensing and Modeling. InTech.
(PDF)
.SH AUTHORS
Yann Chemin, Asian Institute of Technology, Thailand
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
i.eb.eta source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Imagery index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
