.TH i.eb.evapfr 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBi.eb.evapfr\fR\fR  \- Computes evaporative fraction and root zone soil moisture.
.SH KEYWORDS
imagery, energy balance, soil moisture, evaporative fraction, SEBAL
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBi.eb.evapfr\fR
.br
\fBi.eb.evapfr \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBi.eb.evapfr\fR [\-\fBm\fR] \fBnetradiation\fR=\fIname\fR \fBsoilheatflux\fR=\fIname\fR \fBsensibleheatflux\fR=\fIname\fR \fBevaporativefraction\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBsoilmoisture\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-m\fR" 4m
.br
Root zone soil moisture output (Makin, Molden and Bastiaanssen, 2001)
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBnetradiation\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of Net Radiation raster map [W/m2]
.IP "\fBsoilheatflux\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of soil heat flux raster map [W/m2]
.IP "\fBsensibleheatflux\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of sensible heat flux raster map [W/m2]
.IP "\fBevaporativefraction\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output evaporative fraction raster map
.IP "\fBsoilmoisture\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output root zone soil moisture raster map
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIi.eb.evapfr\fR calculates the evaporative fraction after
Bastiaanssen 1995. The main implementation follows Alexandridis et al.
(2009). The module takes as input the net radiation (see \fIr.sun\fR,
\fIi.eb.netrad\fR), soil heat flux (see \fIi.eb.soilheatflux\fR)
and sensible heat flux (see \fIi.eb.hsebal01\fR). A flag adds a
root zone empirical soil moisture output from the article of
Bastiaanssen, et al. (2000).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
i.eb.hsebal01,
i.eb.netrad,
i.eb.soilheatflux,
r.sun
\fR
.SH REFERENCES
.PP
Bastiaanssen, W.G.M., 1995.
Estimation of Land surface parameters by remote sensing under clear\-sky
conditions. PhD thesis, Wageningen University, Wageningen, The Netherlands.
(PDF)
.PP
Bastiaanssen, W.G.M., Molden, D.J., Makin, I.W., 2000.
Remote sensing for irrigated agriculture: examples from research and
possible applications. Agricultural water management 46.2: 137\-155.
.PP
Chemin Y., Alexandridis T.A., 2001. Improving spatial resolution of ET
seasonal for irrigated rice in Zhanghe, China. Asian Journal of Geoinformatics.
5(1):3\-11.
.PP
Alexandridis T.K., Cherif I., Chemin Y., Silleos N.G., Stavrinos E.,
Zalidis G.C., 2009.
Integrated methodology for estimating water use in Mediterranean
agricultural areas. Remote Sensing. 1, 445\-465.
(PDF)
.PP
Chemin, Y., 2012.
A Distributed Benchmarking Framework for Actual ET Models,
in: Irmak, A. (Ed.), Evapotranspiration \- Remote Sensing and Modeling. InTech.
(PDF)
.SH AUTHOR
Yann Chemin, Asian Institute of Technology, Thailand
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: i.eb.evapfr source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Imagery index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
