.TH i.evapo.mh 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBi.evapo.mh\fR\fR  \- Computes evapotranspiration calculation modified or original Hargreaves formulation, 2001.
.SH KEYWORDS
imagery, evapotranspiration
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBi.evapo.mh\fR
.br
\fBi.evapo.mh \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBi.evapo.mh\fR [\-\fBzhs\fR] \fBnetradiation_diurnal\fR=\fIname\fR \fBaverage_temperature\fR=\fIname\fR \fBminimum_temperature\fR=\fIname\fR \fBmaximum_temperature\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBprecipitation\fR=\fIname\fR]  \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-z\fR" 4m
.br
Set negative ETa to zero
.IP "\fB\-h\fR" 4m
.br
Use original Hargreaves (1985)
.IP "\fB\-s\fR" 4m
.br
Use Hargreaves\-Samani (1985)
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBnetradiation_diurnal\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input diurnal net radiation raster map [W/m2/d]
.IP "\fBaverage_temperature\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input average air temperature raster map [C]
.IP "\fBminimum_temperature\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input minimum air temperature raster map [C]
.IP "\fBmaximum_temperature\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input maximum air temperature raster map [C]
.IP "\fBprecipitation\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of precipitation raster map [mm/month]
.br
Disabled for original Hargreaves (1985)
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map [mm/d]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIi.evapo.mh\fR calculates the reference evapotranspiration (ET) after
Hargreaves et al. (1985), Hargreaves and Samani (1985) and the Modified Hargreaves version found in Droogers and Allen (2002).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
i.evapo.pt,
i.evapo.pm,
i.evapo.time,
r.sun
\fR
.SH REFERENCES
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
Hargreaves GL, Hargreaves GH, Riley JP, 1985. Agricultural benefits for
Senegal River Basin. Journal of Irrigation and Drainange Engineering,
ASCE, 111(2):113\-124.
.IP \(bu 4n
Droogers P, Allen RG, 2002. Towards a simplified global reference
evapotranspiration equation. Irrigation Science.
.IP \(bu 4n
Droogers, P., Allen RG. 2002. Estimating reference evapotranspiration
under inaccurate data conditions. Irrigation and Drainage Systems 16: 33\-45.
.IP \(bu 4n
Hargreaves GH, Samani ZA, 1985. Reference crop evapotranspiration from
ambient air temperature. American Society of Agricultural Engineers
(Microfiche collection)(USA). no. fiche no. 85\-2517.
.RE
.SH AUTHORS
Yann Chemin, GRASS Development team, 2007\-2016
.br
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: i.evapo.mh source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Imagery index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
