.TH i.group 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBi.group\fR\fR  \- Creates, edits, and lists groups of imagery data.
.SH KEYWORDS
imagery, map management
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBi.group\fR
.br
\fBi.group \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBi.group\fR [\-\fBrlsg\fR] \fBgroup\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBsubgroup\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR,...]]   [\fBfile\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-r\fR" 4m
.br
Remove selected files from specified group or subgroup
.IP "\fB\-l\fR" 4m
.br
List files from specified (sub)group
.IP "\fB\-s\fR" 4m
.br
List subgroups from specified group
.IP "\fB\-g\fR" 4m
.br
Print in shell script style
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBgroup\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of imagery group
.IP "\fBsubgroup\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of imagery subgroup
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname[,\fIname\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of raster map(s) to include in group
.IP "\fBfile\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Input file with one raster map name per line
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIi.group\fR allows the user to collect raster map layers in an imagery
group by assigning them to user\-named subgroups or other groups. This
enables the user to run analyses on any combination of the raster map layers
in a group.  The user creates the groups and subgroups and selects the
raster map layers that are to reside in them. Imagery analysis programs like
\fIg.gui.gcp\fR,
\fIi.rectify\fR,
\fIi.ortho.photo\fR and
others ask the user for the name of an imagery group whose data are to be
analyzed. Imagery analysis programs like
\fIi.cluster\fR and
\fIi.maxlik\fR ask the user for the imagery group
and imagery subgroup whose data are to be analyzed.
.SH NOTES
The \fIi.group\fR options are only available for
imagery map layers in the current LOCATION_NAME.
.PP
Subgroup names may not contain more than 12 characters.
.SS EXAMPLE
This example runs in the \(dqlandsat\(dq mapset of the North Carolina sample
dataset. The following command creates a group and subgroup containing
only the visible light bands of Landsat\-7:
.br
.nf
\fC
i.group group=vis_bands subgroup=vis_bands input=lsat7_2000_10,lsat7_2000_20,lsat7_2000_30
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
The GRASS 4 \fI
Image
Processing manual\fR
.PP
\fI
g.gui.gcp,
i.cluster,
i.maxlik,
i.rectify,
i.ortho.photo
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Shapiro,
U.S.Army Construction Engineering
Research Laboratory
.br
Parser support: Bob Covill (Tekmap, Canada)
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
i.group source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Imagery index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
