.TH i.his.rgb 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBi.his.rgb\fR\fR  \- Transforms raster maps from HIS (Hue\-Intensity\-Saturation) color space to RGB (Red\-Green\-Blue) color space.
.SH KEYWORDS
imagery, color transformation, RGB, HIS, IHS
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBi.his.rgb\fR
.br
\fBi.his.rgb \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBi.his.rgb\fR \fBhue\fR=\fIname\fR \fBintensity\fR=\fIname\fR \fBsaturation\fR=\fIname\fR \fBred\fR=\fIname\fR \fBgreen\fR=\fIname\fR \fBblue\fR=\fIname\fR  [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBhue\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map (hue)
.IP "\fBintensity\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map (intensity)
.IP "\fBsaturation\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map (saturation)
.IP "\fBred\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map (red)
.IP "\fBgreen\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map (green)
.IP "\fBblue\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map (blue)
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIi.his.rgb\fR is an image processing program that
processes three input raster map layers as hue, intensity
and saturation components and produces three output raster
map layers representing the red, green and blue components
of this data.  The output raster map layers are created by
a standard hue\-intensity\-saturation (HIS) to red\-green\-blue
(RGB) color transformation.  Each output raster map layer
is given a linear gray scale color table.  The current
geographic region and mask settings are respected.
.SH NOTES
It is not possible to process three bands with
\fIi.his.rgb\fR and then exactly recover the original
bands with \fIi.rgb.his\fR.
This is due to loss of precision because of integer
computations and rounding.  Tests have shown that more than
70% of the original cell values will be reproduced exactly
after transformation in both directions and that 99% will
be within plus or minus 1.  A few cell values may differ
significantly from their original values.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
i.rgb.his,
r.colors
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
David Satnik, GIS Laboratory,
Central Washington University
.PP
with acknowledgements to Ali Vali, Univ. of Texas Space Research
Center, for the core routine.
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: i.his.rgb source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Imagery index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
