.TH i.in.spotvgt 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBi.in.spotvgt.py\fR\fR  \- Imports SPOT VGT NDVI data into a raster map.
.SH KEYWORDS
imagery, import, NDVI, SPOT
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBi.in.spotvgt.py\fR
.br
\fBi.in.spotvgt.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBi.in.spotvgt.py\fR [\-\fBa\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-a\fR" 4m
.br
Also import quality map (SM status map layer) and filter NDVI map
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input SPOT VGT NDVI HDF file
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIi.in.spotvgt\fR imports SPOT Vegetation (1km, global) NDVI data sets.
After import the digital numbers (DN) are remapped to VEGETATION NDVI
values and the NDVI color table is applied. The imported DN map is
removed after remapping.
.PP
Apparently missing raster cells due to bad pixel quality are reconstructed
by the SPOT operating team in the NDVI file. The differences between the
filtered (\-a flag) and raw NDVI map should be compared.
.SH NOTES
The SPOT VGT files are delivered in HDF4 (Hierarchical Data Format Release 4)
format. It is required to have the GDAL libraries installed with HDF4 support.
.SS Export of entire world SPOT VGT maps
When working with SPOT VGT with entire world extent, it is recommended
to zoom to \fIw=180W\fR and \fIe=180E\fR instead of using the map
extent for map export. These entire world SPOT VGT data are exceeding
\-180.0 degree which can lead to unhelpful large East\-West coordinates in
the exported file. It is also recommended to then use an export command
which respects the user settings. Example:
.br
.nf
\fC
# import:
i.in.spotvgt 0001_NDV.HDF
# export:
g.region w=180W e=180E n=75:00:16.071429N s=56:00:16.069919S res=0:00:32.142857 \-p
r.out.gdal 0001_NDV format=GTiff out=spotndvi.tif
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.in.gdal,
r.out.gdal
\fR
.SH REFERENCES
SPOT Vegetation (1km, global) NDVI data set server
.br
SPOT Vegetation FAQ
.br
1.13 How must I read the 8 bits of the status map? \- Quality map
.SH AUTHOR
Markus Neteler
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: i.in.spotvgt source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Imagery index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
