.TH i.ortho.rectify 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBi.ortho.rectify\fR\fR  \- Orthorectifies an image by using the image to photo coordinate transformation matrix.
.SH KEYWORDS
imagery, orthorectify
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBi.ortho.rectify\fR
.br
\fBi.ortho.rectify \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBi.ortho.rectify\fR [\-\fBcap\fR] \fBgroup\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR,...]]  \fBextension\fR=\fIstring\fR  [\fBresolution\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBmemory\fR=\fImemory in MB\fR]   [\fBmethod\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBangle\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 4m
.br
Use current region settings in target location (def.=calculate smallest area)
.IP "\fB\-a\fR" 4m
.br
Rectify all raster maps in group
.IP "\fB\-p\fR" 4m
.br
Enable panorama camera correction
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBgroup\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input imagery group
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname[,\fIname\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map(s)
.IP "\fBextension\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Output raster map(s) suffix
.IP "\fBresolution\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Target resolution (ignored if \-c flag used)
.IP "\fBmemory\fR=\fImemory in MB\fR" 4m
.br
Maximum memory to be used (in MB)
.br
Cache size for raster rows
.br
Default: \fI300\fR
.IP "\fBmethod\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Interpolation method to use
.br
Options: \fInearest, linear, cubic, lanczos, linear_f, cubic_f, lanczos_f\fR
.br
Default: \fInearest\fR
.IP "\fBangle\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Raster map with camera angle relative to ground surface
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIi.photo.rectify\fR rectifies an image by using the image to photo
coordinate transformation matrix created by i.photo.2image
and the rectification parameters created by i.photo.2target.
Rectification is the process by which the geometry of an image is made
planimetric.  This is accomplished by mapping an image from one coordinate
system to another. In \fIi.photo.rectify\fR the parameters computed by
i.photo.2image and
i.photo.2target are used in equations to
convert x,y image coordinates to standard map coordinates for each pixel in
the image.  The result is an image with a standard map coordinate system,
compensated for relief distortions and photographic tilt. Upon completion of
the program the rectified image is deposited in a previously targeted GRASS
LOCATION.
.PP
Images can be resampled with various different interpolation methods:
nearest neighbor assignment, bilinear and bicubic interpolation. The
bilinear and bicubic interpolation methods are also available with a
fallback option. These methods \(dqfall back\(dq to simpler interpolation
methods along NULL borders. That is, from bicubic to bilinear to nearest.
.PP
The process may take an hour or more depending on the size of the image,
the speed of the computer, the number files, and the size and resolution
of the selected window.
.PP
The rectified image will be located in the target LOCATION when the program
is completed. The original unrectified files are not modified or removed.
.PP
The optional \fIangle\fR output holds the camera angle in degrees to
the local surface, considering local slope and aspect. A value of 90
degrees indicates that the camera angle was orthogonal to the local
surface, a value of 0 degrees indicates that the camera angle was
parallel to the local surface and negative values indicate that the
surface was invisible to the camera. As a rule of thumb, values below 30
degrees indicate problem areas where the orthorectified output will
appear blurred. Because terrain shadowing effects are not considered,
areas with high camera angles may also appear blurred if they are located
(viewed from the camera position) behind mountain ridges or peaks.
.PP
\fIi.photo.rectify\fR can be run directly, specifying options in the
command line or the GUI, or it can be invoked as OPTION 8 through
i.ortho.photo. If invoked though
i.ortho.photo, an interactive terminal
is used to determine the options.
.SS Interactive mode
.PP
You are first asked if all images within the imagery group should
be rectified. If this option is not chosen, you are asked to specify for
each image within the imagery group whether it should be rectified or not.
.PP
More than one file may be rectified at a time. Each file
should have a unique output file name. The next prompt asks you for an
extension to be appended to the rectified images.
.PP
The next prompt will ask you whether a camera angle map should be
produced and if yes, what should be its name.
.PP
After that you are asked if overwriting existing maps in the target
location and mapset should be allowed.
.PP
The next prompt asks you to select one of two windows:
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
      Please select one of the following options
      1.   Use the current window in the target location
      2.   Determine the smallest window which covers the image
      >
\fR
.fi
.PP
If you choose option 2, you can also specify a desired target resolution.
.PP
\fIi.photo.rectify\fR will only rectify that portion of the
image that occurs within the chosen window.  Only that portion will be
relocated in the target database. It is therefore important to check the
current window in the target LOCATION if choice number one is selected.
.PP
Next you are asked to select an interpolation method.
.br
.nf
\fC
      Please select one of the following interpolation methods
      1. nearest neighbor
      2. bilinear
      3. bicubic
      4. bilinear with fallback
      5. bicubic with fallback
      >
\fR
.fi
.PP
The last prompt will ask you about the amount of memory to be used by
\fIi.photo.rectify\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
i.ortho.photo
.br
i.ortho.camera
.br
i.photo.2image
.br
i.photo.2target
.br
i.ortho.init
.br
i.rectify
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Mike Baba,  DBA Systems, Inc.
.br
Updated rectification and elevation map to FP 1/2002 Markus Neteler
.br
Bugfixes and enhancements 12/2010 Markus Metz
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
i.ortho.rectify source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Imagery index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
