.TH i.tasscap 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBi.tasscap.py\fR\fR  \- Performs Tasseled Cap (Kauth Thomas) transformation.
.SH KEYWORDS
imagery, transformation, Landsat, MODIS, Worldview, Sentinel, Tasseled Cap transformation
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBi.tasscap.py\fR
.br
\fBi.tasscap.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBi.tasscap.py\fR \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR,...] \fBoutput\fR=\fIbasename\fR \fBsensor\fR=\fIstring\fR  [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname[,\fIname\fR,...]\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
For Landsat4\-7: bands 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7; for Landsat8: bands 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7; for MODIS: bands 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7; for Sentinel\-2: bands 1 to 12, 8A; for Worldview\-2: bands 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIbasename\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
basename for output raster map(s)
.br
Name for output basename raster map(s)
.IP "\fBsensor\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Satellite sensor
.br
Options: \fIlandsat4_tm, landsat5_tm, landsat7_etm, landsat8_oli, modis, sentinel2, worldview2\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIi.tasscap\fR calculates Tasseled Cap (Kauth Thomas, TC) transformation
for Landsat TM data (TM4, TM5, ETM7), MODIS and Sentinel\-2 data.
The tasseled cap transformation is effectively a compression method to
reduce multiple spectral data into a few bands. The method was originally
developed for understanding important phenomena of crop development in
spectral space (Kauth and Thomas, 1976).
.PP
Tasseled cap coefficients for Landsat 7 ETM+ are at\-satellite reflectance
values (C. Huang et al., 2001), the conversion can be achieved with
\fIi.landsat.toar\fR.
.PP
The following tasseled cap components are generated:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
tasscap.1: corresponds to brightness,
.IP \(bu 4n
tasscap.2: corresponds to greenness,
.IP \(bu 4n
tasscap.3: corresponds to wetness,
.IP \(bu 4n
tasscap.4: corresponds to atmospheric haze (only selected sensors: Landsat 5,7,8).
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
Calculation of TC maps from North Carolina Landsat 7 ETM scene:
.br
.nf
\fC
# See manual page of i.landsat.toar for pre\-processing
g.region raster=lsat7_2002_toar.1 \-p
i.tasscap sensor=landsat7_etm \(rs
  input=lsat7_2002_toar.1,lsat7_2002_toar.2,lsat7_2002_toar.3,lsat7_2002_toar.4,lsat7_2002_toar.5,lsat7_2002_toar.7 \(rs
  output=lsat7_2002_tasscap
\fR
.fi
Results:
.PP
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
 
\fI\(cqBrightness\(cq Tasseled Cap component 1\fR
T}	 	T{
 
\fI\(cqGreenness\(cq Tasseled Cap component 2\fR
T}
.sp 1
T{
 
\fI\(cqWetness\(cq Tasseled Cap component 3\fR
T}	 	T{
 
\fI\(cqAtmospheric haze\(cq Tasseled Cap component 4\fR
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.br
.SH REFERENCES
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
LANDSAT\-4/LANDSAT\-5: TC\-factor changed to CRIST et al. 1986,
Proc. IGARSS 1986, p.1467
.IP \(bu 4n
Crist, E. P., 1985, A TM tasseled cap equivalent transformation for reflectance
factor data, Remote Sensing of Environment, 17: 301\-306.
.IP \(bu 4n
LANDSAT\-7: TASSCAP factors cited from:
DERIVATION OF A TASSELED CAP TRANSFORMATION BASED ON LANDSAT 7 AT\-SATELLITE REFLECTANCE.
Chengquan Huang, Bruce Wylie, Limin Yang, Collin Homer and Gregory Zylstra Raytheon ITSS,
USGS EROS Data Center Sioux Falls, SD 57198, USA (http://landcover.usgs.gov/pdf/tasseled.pdf).
This is published as well in INT. J. OF RS, 2002, VOL 23, NO. 8, 1741\-1748.
.IP \(bu 4n
MODIS Tasseled Cap coefficients \- Ref: Lobser & Cohen (2007). MODIS tasseled cap:
land cover characteristics expressed through transformed MODIS data.
International Journal of Remote Sensing, Volume 28(22), Table 3
.IP \(bu 4n
Sentinel\-2 Tasseled Cap coefficients \- Ref: Nedkov, R. (2017). Orthogonal transformation
of segmented images from the satellite Sentinel\-2.
Comptes rendus de l\(cqAcadémie bulgare des sciences, 70:687\-692.
.IP \(bu 4n
Yarbrough, L., Navulur, R., 2014, Presentation of the Kauth\-Thomas transform
for WorldView\-2 reflectance data. Remote Sensing Letters. 5. DOI: 10.1080/2150704X.2014.885148.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
i.albedo,
i.atcorr,
i.landsat.toar,
i.vi
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Dr. Agustin Lobo, original script, 1997
.PP
Markus Neteler, ITC\-irst, 2001
.PP
Converted to Python by Glynn Clements
.PP
Code improvements by Leonardo Perathoner
.PP
Sentinel\-2 support by Veronica Andreo
.PP
Worldview\-2 support by Markus Neteler
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
i.tasscap source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Imagery index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
