.TH miscellaneous 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
.PP
\fBGeographic Resources Analysis Support System\fR, commonly
referred to as GRASS GIS, is a Geographic
Information System (GIS) used for geospatial data management and
analysis, image processing, graphics/maps production, spatial
modeling, and visualization. GRASS is currently used in academic and
commercial settings around the world, as well as by many governmental
agencies and environmental consulting companies.
.PP
This reference manual details the use of modules distributed with
Geographic Resources Analysis Support System (GRASS), an open source
(GNU GPLed), image
processing and geographic information system (GIS).
Go back to help overview
.SS Miscellaneous commands:
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
m.cogo
T}	 	T{
A simple utility for converting bearing and distance measurements to coordinates and vice versa.
T}
.sp 1
T{
m.measure
T}	 	T{
Measures the lengths and areas of features.
T}
.sp 1
T{
m.nviz.image
T}	 	T{
Creates a 3D rendering of GIS data.
T}
.sp 1
T{
m.nviz.script
T}	 	T{
Creates fly\-through script to run in NVIZ.
T}
.sp 1
T{
m.proj
T}	 	T{
Converts coordinates from one projection to another (cs2cs frontend).
T}
.sp 1
T{
m.transform
T}	 	T{
Computes a coordinate transformation based on the control points.
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
