.TH r.basins.fill 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.basins.fill\fR\fR  \- Generates watershed subbasins raster map.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, hydrology, watershed
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.basins.fill\fR
.br
\fBr.basins.fill \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.basins.fill\fR \fBcnetwork\fR=\fIname\fR \fBtnetwork\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBnumber\fR=\fIinteger\fR  [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBcnetwork\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input coded stream network raster map
.IP "\fBtnetwork\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input thinned ridge network raster map
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map
.IP "\fBnumber\fR=\fIinteger\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Number of passes through the dataset
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.basins.fill\fR
generates a raster map layer depicting subbasins, based
on input raster map layers for the coded stream network
(where each channel segment has been \(dqcoded\(dq with a unique category value)
and for the ridges within a given watershed.
The raster map layer depicting ridges should include
the ridge which defines the perimeter of the watershed.
The coded stream network can be generated
as part of the
\fIr.watershed\fR program,
but the map layer of ridges will need to be created by hand
(for example, through digitizing done in \fIwxGUI vector digitizer\fR).
.PP
The resulting output raster map layer will
code the subbasins with category values matching
those of the channel segments passing through them.
A user\-supplied number of passes through the data is
made in an attempt to fill in these subbasins.
If the resulting map layer from this program appears to
have holes within a subbasin, the program should be
rerun with a higher number of passes.
.br
.br
.SH NOTES
The current geographic region setting is ignored.
Instead, the geographic region for the entire input stream\(cqs
map layer is used.
.SH SEE ALSO
See Appendix A of the \fBGRASS\fR Tutorial:
r.watershed for further details on the combined use of
\fIr.basins.fill\fR and \fIr.watershed\fR.
.PP
\fI
r.water.outlet,
r.watershed,
wxGUI vector digitizer
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Dale White,
Dept. of Geography,
Pennsylvania State University
.br
Larry Band, Dept. of Geography, University of Toronto, Canada
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
r.basins.fill source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
