.TH r.buffer.lowmem 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.buffer.lowmem.py\fR\fR  \- Creates a raster map showing buffer zones surrounding cells that contain non\-NULL category values.
.br
This is the low\-memory alternative to the classic r.buffer module.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, buffer
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.buffer.lowmem.py\fR
.br
\fBr.buffer.lowmem.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.buffer.lowmem.py\fR [\-\fBz\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBdistances\fR=\fIfloat\fR[,\fIfloat\fR,...]  [\fBunits\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-z\fR" 4m
.br
Ignore zero (0) data cells instead of NULL cells
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map
.IP "\fBdistances\fR=\fIfloat[,\fIfloat\fR,...]\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Distance zone(s)
.IP "\fBunits\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Units of distance
.br
Options: \fImeters, kilometers, feet, miles, nautmiles\fR
.br
Default: \fImeters\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.buffer.lowmem\fR creates a new raster map showing buffer
(a.k.a. \(dqdistance\(dq or \(dqproximity\(dq) zones around all cells that contain
non\-NULL category values in an existing raster map. The distances of
buffer zones from cells with non\-zero category values are user\-chosen.
.PP
This is the low\-memory alternative to the
classic \fIr.buffer\fR module. It is
much slower than the classic version, but will run on massive raster
maps without using a lot of RAM. If your raster map is larger than
32000x32000 cells on a system with 1 GB of RAM, or larger than
90000x90000 cells on a system with 8 GB of RAM, consider using this
module.
.PP
For more info see manual of \fIr.buffer\fR.
.SH EXAMPLE
In the following example, the buffer zones would be (in the default units
of meters): 0\-100, 101\-200, 201\-300, 301\-400 and 401\-500.
.br
.nf
\fC
r.buffer.lowmem input=roads output=roads.buf distances=100,200,300,400,500
\fR
.fi
Result:
.br
.nf
\fC
r.category input=roads.buf
      1       distances calculated from these locations
      2       0\-100 meters
      3       100\-200 meters
      4       200\-300 meters
      5       300\-400 meters
      6       400\-500 meters
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
g.region,
r.buffer,
r.cost,
r.grow.distance,
r.mapcalc,
r.reclass,
v.buffer
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Michael Shapiro, U.S. Army Construction Engineering
Research Laboratory
.br
James Westervelt, U.S. Army Construction Engineering
Research Laboratory
.br
Low\-memory Python version by Glynn Clements
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r.buffer.lowmem source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
