.TH r.category 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.category\fR\fR  \- Manages category values and labels associated with user\-specified raster map layers.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, category
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.category\fR
.br
\fBr.category \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.category\fR \fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBcats\fR=\fIrange\fR[,\fIrange\fR,...]]   [\fBvalues\fR=\fIfloat\fR[,\fIfloat\fR,...]]   [\fBseparator\fR=\fIcharacter\fR]   [\fBraster\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBrules\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBformat\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBcoefficients\fR=\fImult1,offset1,mult2,offset2\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of raster map
.IP "\fBcats\fR=\fIrange[,\fIrange\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Category values
.br
Example: 1,3,7\-9,13
.IP "\fBvalues\fR=\fIfloat[,\fIfloat\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Comma separated value list
.br
Example: 1.4,3.8,13
.IP "\fBseparator\fR=\fIcharacter\fR" 4m
.br
Field separator
.br
Special characters: pipe, comma, space, tab, newline
.br
Default: \fItab\fR
.IP "\fBraster\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Raster map from which to copy category table
.IP "\fBrules\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
File containing category label rules (or \(dq\-\(dq to read from stdin)
.IP "\fBformat\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Default label or format string for dynamic labeling
.br
Used when no explicit label exists for the category
.IP "\fBcoefficients\fR=\fImult1,offset1,mult2,offset2\fR" 4m
.br
Dynamic label coefficients
.br
Two pairs of category multiplier and offsets, for $1 and $2
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.category\fR prints the category values and labels for the raster map
layer specified by \fBmap=\fR\fIname\fR to standard output. You can also
use it to set category labels for a raster map.
.PP
The user can specify all needed parameters on the command line, and run the
program non\-interactively. If the user does not specify any categories
(e.g., using the optional \fBcats=\fR\fIrange\fR[,\fIrange\fR,...]
argument), then all the category values and labels for the named raster map
layer that occur in the map are printed.  The entire \fImap\fR is read
using \fIr.describe\fR, to determine which
categories occur in the \fImap\fR. If a listing of categories is
specified, then the labels for those categories only are printed. The
\fIcats\fR may be specified as single category values, or as ranges of
values. The user may also (optionally) specify that a field separator other
than a space or tab be used to separate the category value from its
corresponding category label in the output, by using the
\fBseparator=\fR\fIcharacter\fR|\fIspace\fR|\fItab\fR option (see example
below). If no field separator is specified by the user, a tab is used to
separate these fields in the output, by default.
.PP
The output is sent to standard output in the form of one category per line,
with the category value first on the line, then an ASCII TAB character (or
whatever single character or space is specified using the \fBseparator\fR
parameter), then the label for the category.
.SH NOTES
Any ASCII TAB characters which may be in the label are replaced by spaces.
.PP
The output from \fIr.category\fR can be redirected into a file, or piped into
another program.
.SS Input from a file
The \fBrules\fR option allows the user to assign category labels from values
found in a file (without header). The label can refer to a single category, range of
categories, floating point value, or a range of floating point values.
The format is given as follows (when separator is set to colon; no white space
must be used after the separator):
.br
.nf
\fC
cat:Label
val1:val2:Label
\fR
.fi
If the filename is given as \(dq\-\(dq, the category labels are read from stdin
.SS Default and dynamic category labels
Default and dynamic category labels can be created for categories that
are not explicitly labeled.
The coefficient line can be followed by explicit category labels
which override the format label generation.
.br
.nf
\fC
   0:no data
   2:	.
   5:	.		      ## explicit category labels
   7:	.
\fR
.fi
explicit labels can be also of the form:
.br
.nf
\fC
   5.5:5:9 label description
   or
   15:30  label description
\fR
.fi
.PP
In the format line
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
$1 refers to the value num*5.0+1000 (ie, using the first 2 coefficients)
.IP \(bu 4n
$2 refers to the value num*5.0+1005 (ie, using the last 2 coefficients)
.RE
$1.2 will print $1 with 2 decimal places.
.PP
Also, the form $?xxx$yyy$ translates into yyy if the category is 1, xxx
otherwise. The $yyy$ is optional. Thus
.PP
$1 meter$?s
.PP
will become:
.br
1 meter (for category 1)
.br
2 meters (for category 2), etc.
.PP
format=\(cqElevation: $1.2 to $2.2 feet\(cq   ## Format Statement
.br
coefficients=\(dq5.0,1000,5.0,1005\(dq	## Coefficients
.PP
The format and coefficients above would be used to generate the
following statement in creation of the format appropriate category
string for category \(dqnum\(dq:
.PP
sprintf(buff,\(dqElevation: %.2f to %.2f feet\(dq, num*5.0+1000, num*5.0*1005)
.PP
Note: while both the format and coefficient lines must be present
a blank line for the format string will effectively suppress
automatic label generation.
.PP
To use a \(dq$\(dq in the label without triggering the plural test,
put \(dq$$\(dq in the format string.
.PP
Use \(cqsingle quotes\(cq when using a \(dq$\(dq on the command line to
avoid unwanted shell substitution.
.SH EXAMPLES
North Carolina sample dataset:
.SS Printing categories
.br
.nf
\fC
r.category map=landclass96
1	developed
2	agriculture
3	herbaceous
4	shrubland
5	forest
6	water
7	sediment
\fR
.fi
prints the values and labels associated with all of the categories in the
\fIlandclass96\fR raster map layer.
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
r.category map=landclass96 cats=2,5\-7
2	agriculture
5	forest
6	water
7	sediment
\fR
.fi
prints only the category values and labels for \fIlandclass96\fR map layer
categories 2 and 5 through 7.
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
r.category map=landclass96 cats=3,4 separator=comma
3,herbaceous
4,shrubland
\fR
.fi
prints the values and labels for \fIlandclass96\fR map layer categories
3 and 4, but uses \(dq,\(dq (instead of a tab)
as the character separating the category values from the category
values in the output.
.SS Adding categories
Example for defining new category labels, using a colon as separator:
.br
.nf
\fC
r.category diseasemap separator=\(dq:\(dq rules=\- << EOF
1:potential absence
2:potential presence
EOF
\fR
.fi
This sets the categoy values 1 and 2 to respective text labels.
Alternatively, the rules can be stored in an ASCII text file and loaded
via the \fIrules\fR parameter.
.SH SEE ALSO
UNIX Manual entries for \fIawk\fR and \fIsort\fR
.PP
\fI
d.what.rast,
r.coin,
r.describe,
r.support
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Michael Shapiro, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory
.br
Hamish Bowman, University of Otago, New Zealand (label creation options)
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r.category source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
