.TH r.cost 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.cost\fR\fR  \- Creates a raster map showing the cumulative cost of moving between different geographic locations on an input raster map whose cell category values represent cost.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, cost surface, cumulative costs, cost allocation
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.cost\fR
.br
\fBr.cost \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.cost\fR [\-\fBknrib\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBsolver\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBnearest\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBoutdir\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBstart_points\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBstop_points\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBstart_raster\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBstart_coordinates\fR=\fIeast,north\fR[,\fIeast,north\fR,...]]   [\fBstop_coordinates\fR=\fIeast,north\fR[,\fIeast,north\fR,...]]   [\fBmax_cost\fR=\fIvalue\fR]   [\fBnull_cost\fR=\fIvalue\fR]   [\fBmemory\fR=\fImemory in MB\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-k\fR" 4m
.br
Use the \(cqKnight\(cqs move\(cq; slower, but more accurate
.IP "\fB\-n\fR" 4m
.br
Keep null values in output raster map
.IP "\fB\-r\fR" 4m
.br
Start with values in raster map
.IP "\fB\-i\fR" 4m
.br
Print info about disk space and memory requirements and exit
.IP "\fB\-b\fR" 4m
.br
Create bitmask encoded directions
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map containing grid cell cost information
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map
.IP "\fBsolver\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map solving equal costs
.br
Helper variable to pick a direction if two directions have equal cumulative costs (smaller is better)
.IP "\fBnearest\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map with nearest start point
.IP "\fBoutdir\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map to contain movement directions
.IP "\fBstart_points\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of starting vector points map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBstop_points\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of stopping vector points map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBstart_raster\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of starting raster points map
.IP "\fBstart_coordinates\fR=\fIeast,north[,\fIeast,north\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Coordinates of starting point(s) (E,N)
.IP "\fBstop_coordinates\fR=\fIeast,north[,\fIeast,north\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Coordinates of stopping point(s) (E,N)
.IP "\fBmax_cost\fR=\fIvalue\fR" 4m
.br
Maximum cumulative cost
.br
Default: \fI0\fR
.IP "\fBnull_cost\fR=\fIvalue\fR" 4m
.br
Cost assigned to null cells. By default, null cells are excluded
.IP "\fBmemory\fR=\fImemory in MB\fR" 4m
.br
Maximum memory to be used (in MB)
.br
Cache size for raster rows
.br
Default: \fI300\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.cost\fR determines the cumulative cost of moving to each
cell on a \fIcost surface\fR (the \fBinput\fR raster map) from
other user\-specified cell(s) whose locations are specified by their
geographic coordinate(s). Each cell in the original cost surface map
will contain a category value which represents the cost of traversing
that cell. \fIr.cost\fR will produce 1) an \fBoutput\fR raster map in
which each cell contains the lowest total cost of traversing the
space between each cell and the user\-specified points (diagonal
costs are multiplied by a factor that depends on the dimensions of
the cell) and 2) a second raster map layer showing the movement
direction to the next cell on the path back to the start point (see
Movement Direction). This module uses the current
geographic region settings. The \fBoutput\fR map will be of the same
data format as the \fBinput\fR map, integer or floating point.
.SH OPTIONS
The \fBinput\fR \fIname\fR is the name of a raster map whose category values
represent the surface cost. The \fBoutput\fR \fIname\fR is the name of the
resultant raster map of cumulative cost. The \fBoutdir\fR \fIname\fR is the
name of the resultant raster map of movement directions (see Movement Direction).
.PP
\fIr.cost\fR can be run with three different methods of identifying the
starting point(s). One or more points (geographic coordinate pairs) can be
provided as specified \fBstart_coordinates\fR on the command line, from a vector
points file, or from a raster map.
All non\-NULL cells are considered to be starting points.
.PP
Each \fIx,y\fR \fBstart_coordinates\fR pair gives the geographic location of a
point from which the transportation cost should be figured. As many points as
desired can be entered by the user. These starting points can also be read
from a vector points file through the \fBstart_points\fR option or from a
raster map through the \fBstart_raster\fR option.
.PP
\fIr.cost\fR will stop cumulating costs when either \fBmax_cost\fR is reached,
or one of the stop points given with \fBstop_coordinates\fR is reached.
Alternatively, the stop points can be read from a vector points file with the
\fBstop_points\fR option. During execution, once the cumulative cost to all
stopping points has been determined, processing stops.
.br
Both sites read from a vector points file and those given on the command line
will be processed.
.PP
The null cells in the \fBinput\fR map can be assigned a (positive floating
point) cost with the \fBnull_cost\fR option.
.br
When input map null cells are given a cost with the \fBnull_cost\fR
option, the corresponding cells in the output map are no longer null
cells. By using the \fB\-n\fR flag, the null cells of the input map are
retained as null cells in the output map.
.PP
As \fIr.cost\fR can run for a very long time, it can be useful to
use the \fB\-\-v\fR verbose flag to track progress.
.PP
The Knight\(cqs move (\fB\-k\fR flag) may be used to improve the accuracy of
the output. In the diagram below, the center location (O) represents a
grid cell from which cumulative distances are calculated. Those
neighbors marked with an X are always considered for cumulative cost
updates. With the \fB\-k\fR option, the neighbors marked with a K are
also considered.
.br
.nf
\fC
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 .   .   . K .   . K .   .   .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 .   . K . X . X . X . K .   .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 .   .   . X . O . X .   .   .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 .   . K . X . X . X . K .   .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 .   .   . K .   . K .   .   .
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
\fR
.fi
.PP
Knight\(cqs move example:
.br
.TS
expand;
lw60.
T{
\fIFlat cost surface without (left pane) and with the knight\(cqs move (right pane).
The default is to grow the cost outwards in 8 directions.
Using the knight\(cqs move grows it outwards in 16 directions.\fR
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
If the \fBnearest\fR output parameter is specified, the module will calculate
for each cell its nearest starting point based on the minimized accumulative cost
while moving over the cost map.
.PP
The \fBsolver\fR option helps to select a particular direction in case
of multiple directions with equal costs. Sometimes fields with equal
cumulative costs exist and multiple paths with equal costs would lead
from a start point to a stop point. By default, a path along the edge
of such a field would be produced or multiple paths of equal costs with
the \fB\-b\fR flag. An additional variable can be supplied with the
\fBsolver\fR option to help the algorithm pick a particular direction.
.PP
Example for solving multiple directions:
.br
.TS
expand;
lw60.
T{
\fIA field of equal cumulative costs with multiple paths (black). By
default a path along the edge will be selected (red). Path selection
can be controlled with the solver option (blue).\fR
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
Multiple directions can be solved as in the above example with the
following steps:
.IP
.IP \fB1\fR
Create multiple directions with \fBr.cost\fR/\fBr.walk\fR
using the \fB\-b\fR flag
.IP \fB2\fR
Extract paths using \fBr.path format=bitmask\fR
.IP \fB3\fR
Calculate the distance from NULL cells to paths using
\fBr.grow.distance \-n input=<paths from r.path>\fR
.IP \fB4\fR
Invert the sign of the distances with \fBr.mapcalc\fR because
for the solver smaller is better, and here we want to get the
center of an area with multiple directions
.IP \fB5\fR
Use thise negative distances as solver for a second pass of
\fBr.cost\fR
.IP \fB6\fR
Extract paths again with \fBr.path\fR to get a geometrically
optimized solution
.PP
.SH NULL CELLS
By default null cells in the input raster map are excluded from
the algorithm, and thus retained in the output map.
.PP
If one wants \fBr.cost\fR to transparently cross any region of null cells,
the \fBnull_cost\fR=0.0 option should be used. Then null cells just
propagate the adjacent costs. These cells can be retained as null cells in the
output map by using the \fB\-n\fR flag.
.SH NOTES
Paths from any point to the nearest starting point of \fIr.cost\fR
can be extracted with \fIr.path\fR by
using the direction output map of \fIr.cost\fR.
.SS Algorithm notes
The fundamental approach to calculating minimum travel cost is as
follows:
.PP
The user generates a raster map indicating the cost of
traversing each cell in the north\-south and east\-west directions.
This map, along with a set of starting points are submitted to
\fIr.cost\fR. The starting points are put into a heap of cells from which
costs to the adjacent cells are to be calculated. The cell on the
heap with the lowest cumulative cost is selected for computing costs to
the neighboring cells. Costs are computed and those cells are put
on the heap and the originating cell is finalized. This process
of selecting the lowest cumulative cost cell, computing costs to the
neighbors, putting the neighbors on the heap and removing the
originating cell from the heap continues until the heap is empty.
.PP
The most time consuming aspect of this algorithm is the management of
the heap of cells for which cumulative costs have been at least
initially computed. \fIr.cost\fR uses a minimum heap for efficiently
tracking the next cell with the lowest cumulative costs.
.PP
\fIr.cost\fR, like most all GRASS raster programs, is also made to
be run on maps larger that can fit in available computer memory. As the
algorithm works through the dynamic heap of cells it can move almost
randomly around the entire area. \fIr.cost\fR divides the entire
area into a number of pieces and swaps these pieces in and out of
memory (to and from disk) as needed. This provides a virtual memory
approach optimally designed for 2\-D raster maps. The amount of memory
to be used by \fIr.cost\fR can be controlled with the \fBmemory\fR
option, default is 300 MB. For systems with less memory this value will
have to be set to a lower value.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Consider the following example:
.br
.nf
\fC
       Input:
         COST SURFACE
       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
       . 2 . 2 . 1 . 1 . 5 . 5 . 5 .
       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
       . 2 . 2 . 8 . 8 . 5 . 2 . 1 .
       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
       . 7 . 1 . 1 . 8 . 2 . 2 . 2 .
       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
       . 8 . 7 . 8 . 8 . 8 . 8 . 5 .
       . . . . . . . . . . _____ . .
       . 8 . 8 . 1 . 1 . 5 | \fB3\fR | 9 .
       . . . . . . . . . . |___| . .
       . 8 . 1 . 1 . 2 . 5 . 3 . 9 .
       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Output (using \-k):                Output (not using \-k):
   CUMULATIVE COST SURFACE           CUMULATIVE COST SURFACE
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     . . . . \fB* * * * *\fR . . . . . .
 . 21. 21. 20. 19. 17. 15. 14.     . 22. 21\fB* 21* 20*\fR 17. 15. 14.
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     . . . . \fB* * * * *\fR . . . . . .
 . 20. 19. 22. 19. 15. 12. 11.     . 20. 19. 22\fB* 20*\fR 15. 12. 11.
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     . . . . . . \fB* * * * *\fR . . . .
 . 22. 18. 17. 17. 12. 11.  9.     . 22. 18. 17\fB* 18* 13*\fR 11.  9.
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     . . . . . . \fB* * * * *\fR . . . .
 . 21. 14. 13. 12.  8.  6.  6.     . 21. 14. 13. 12.  8.  6.  6.
 . . . . . . . . . .  _____. .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 . 16. 13.  8.  7.  4 | \fB0\fR | 6.     . 16. 13.  8. 7 .  4.  0.  6.
 . . . . . . . . . .  |___|. .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
 . 14.  9.  8.  9.  6.  3.  8.     . 14.  9.  8. 9 .  6.  3.  8.
 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
\fR
.fi
.PP
The user\-provided starting location in the above example is the boxed \fB3\fR
in the above input map. The costs in the output map represent the total
cost of moving from each box (\(dqcell\(dq) to one or more (here,
only one) starting location(s). Cells surrounded by asterisks are
those that are different between operations using and not using the
Knight\(cqs move (\fB\-k\fR) option.
.SS Output analysis
The output map can be viewed, for example, as an elevation model in which
the starting location(s) is/are the lowest point(s). Outputs from \fIr.cost\fR
can be used as inputs to \fIr.path\fR ,
in order to trace the least\-cost path given by this
model between any given cell and the \fIr.cost\fR starting location(s). The
two programs, when used together, generate least\-cost paths or corridors between any
two map locations (cells).
.SS Shortest distance surfaces
The \fIr.cost\fR module allows for computing the shortest distance
of each pixel from raster lines, such as determining the shortest distances
of households to the nearby road. For this cost surfaces with cost value 1 are
used. The calculation is done with \fIr.cost\fR as follows
(example for Spearfish region):
.br
.nf
\fC
  g.region raster=roads \-p
  r.mapcalc \(dqarea.one = 1\(dq
  r.cost \-k input=area.one output=distance start_raster=roads
  d.rast distance
  d.rast.num distance
  #transform to metric distance from cell distance using the raster resolution:
  r.mapcalc \(dqdist_meters = distance * (ewres()+nsres())/2.\(dq
  d.rast dist_meters
\fR
.fi
.SH Movement Direction
The movement direction surface is created to record the sequence of
movements that created the cost accumulation surface. This movement
direction surface can be used by \fIr.path\fR
to recover a path from an end point back to the start point.
The direction of each cell points towards the next cell.
The directions are recorded as degrees CCW from East:
.br
.nf
\fC
       112.5      67.5         i.e. a cell with the value 135
157.5  135   90   45   22.5    means the next cell is to the north\-west
       180   x   360
202.5  225  270  315  337.5
       247.5     292.5
\fR
.fi
.SS Cost allocation
Example: calculation of the cost allocation map \(dqcostalloc\(dq and the cumulative
cost map \(dqcostsurf\(dq for given starting points (map \(dqsources\(dq) and given
cost raster map \(dqcosts\(dq:
.br
.nf
\fC
r.cost input=costs start_raster=sources output=costsurf nearest=costalloc
\fR
.fi
.SS Find the minimum cost path
Once \fIr.cost\fR computes the cumulative cost map and an associated
movement direction map, \fIr.path\fR
can be used to find the minimum cost path.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.walk,
r.path,
r.in.ascii,
r.mapcalc,
r.out.ascii
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Antony Awaida, Intelligent Engineering Systems Laboratory, M.I.T.
.br
James Westervelt, U.S.Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory
.br
Updated for Grass 5 by Pierre de Mouveaux (pmx@audiovu.com)
.br
Markus Metz
.br
Multiple path directions sponsored by mundialis
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
r.cost source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
