.TH r.in.lidar 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.in.lidar\fR\fR  \- Creates a raster map from LAS LiDAR points using univariate statistics.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, import, LIDAR, statistics, conversion, aggregation, binning
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.in.lidar\fR
.br
\fBr.in.lidar \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.in.lidar\fR [\-\fBpenosgijdv\fR]  [\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBfile\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBmethod\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBtype\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBbase_raster\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBzrange\fR=\fImin,max\fR]   [\fBzscale\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBintensity_range\fR=\fImin,max\fR]   [\fBintensity_scale\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBpercent\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBpth\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBtrim\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBresolution\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBreturn_filter\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBclass_filter\fR=\fIinteger\fR[,\fIinteger\fR,...]]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-p\fR" 4m
.br
Print LAS file info and exit
.IP "\fB\-e\fR" 4m
.br
Use the extent of the input for the raster extent
.br
Set internally computational region extents based on the point cloud
.IP "\fB\-n\fR" 4m
.br
Set computation region to match the new raster map
.br
Set computation region to match the 2D extent and resolution of the newly created new raster map
.IP "\fB\-o\fR" 4m
.br
Override projection check (use current location\(cqs projection)
.br
Assume that the dataset has same projection as the current location
.IP "\fB\-s\fR" 4m
.br
Scan data file for extent then exit
.IP "\fB\-g\fR" 4m
.br
In scan mode, print using shell script style
.IP "\fB\-i\fR" 4m
.br
Use intensity values rather than Z values
.br
Uses intensity values everywhere as if they would be Z coordinates
.IP "\fB\-j\fR" 4m
.br
Use Z values for filtering, but intensity values for statistics
.IP "\fB\-d\fR" 4m
.br
Use base raster resolution instead of computational region
.br
For getting values from base raster, use its actual resolution instead of computational region resolution
.IP "\fB\-v\fR" 4m
.br
Use only valid points
.br
Points invalid according to APSRS LAS specification will be filtered out
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
LAS input file
.br
LiDAR input files in LAS format (*.las or *.laz)
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map
.IP "\fBfile\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
File containing names of LAS input files
.br
LiDAR input files in LAS format (*.las or *.laz)
.IP "\fBmethod\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Statistic to use for raster values
.br
Options: \fIn, min, max, range, sum, mean, stddev, variance, coeff_var, median, percentile, skewness, trimmean\fR
.br
Default: \fImean\fR
.br
\fBn\fR: Number of points in cell
.br
\fBmin\fR: Minimum value of point values in cell
.br
\fBmax\fR: Maximum value of point values in cell
.br
\fBrange\fR: Range of point values in cell
.br
\fBsum\fR: Sum of point values in cell
.br
\fBmean\fR: Mean (average) value of point values in cell
.br
\fBstddev\fR: Standard deviation of point values in cell
.br
\fBvariance\fR: Variance of point values in cell
.br
\fBcoeff_var\fR: Coefficient of variance of point values in cell
.br
\fBmedian\fR: Median value of point values in cell
.br
\fBpercentile\fR: pth (nth) percentile of point values in cell
.br
\fBskewness\fR: Skewness of point values in cell
.br
\fBtrimmean\fR: Trimmed mean of point values in cell
.IP "\fBtype\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Type of raster map to be created
.br
Storage type for resultant raster map
.br
Options: \fICELL, FCELL, DCELL\fR
.br
Default: \fIFCELL\fR
.br
\fBCELL\fR: Integer
.br
\fBFCELL\fR: Single precision floating point
.br
\fBDCELL\fR: Double precision floating point
.IP "\fBbase_raster\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Subtract raster values from the Z coordinates
.br
The scale for Z is applied beforehand, the range filter for Z afterwards
.IP "\fBzrange\fR=\fImin,max\fR" 4m
.br
Filter range for Z data (min,max)
.br
Applied after base_raster transformation step
.IP "\fBzscale\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Scale to apply to Z data
.br
Default: \fI1.0\fR
.IP "\fBintensity_range\fR=\fImin,max\fR" 4m
.br
Filter range for intensity values (min,max)
.IP "\fBintensity_scale\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Scale to apply to intensity values
.br
Default: \fI1.0\fR
.IP "\fBpercent\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Percent of map to keep in memory
.br
Options: \fI1\-100\fR
.br
Default: \fI100\fR
.IP "\fBpth\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
pth percentile of the values
.br
Options: \fI1\-100\fR
.IP "\fBtrim\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Discard given percentage of the smallest and largest values
.br
Discard <trim> percent of the smallest and <trim> percent of the largest observations
.br
Options: \fI0\-50\fR
.IP "\fBresolution\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Output raster resolution
.IP "\fBreturn_filter\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Only import points of selected return type
.br
If not specified, all points are imported
.br
Options: \fIfirst, last, mid\fR
.IP "\fBclass_filter\fR=\fIinteger[,\fIinteger\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Only import points of selected class(es)
.br
Input is comma separated integers. If not specified, all points are imported.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIr.in.lidar\fR module loads LAS LiDAR point clouds into a new
raster map using binning. The user may choose from a variety of
statistical methods which will be used for binning when creating
the new raster.
.PP
Since a new raster map is created during the binning, the binning of
points depends on the current computational region settings
(extent and resolution) by default (see more about binning below).
When using the \fB\-e\fR flag, the binning will be done in the extent
of the point cloud, so the resulting raster will have extent based on
the input point cloud.
When the \fIresolution=value\fR parameter is used,
the binning is done using the provided resolution and the resulting
raster will have that resolution (see more below for more information
about extent and resolution management).
.PP
\fIr.in.lidar\fR is designed for processing massive point cloud
datasets, for example raw LiDAR or sidescan sonar swath data. It has
been tested with large datasets (see below for memory management
notes).
.SS Binning
The main difference between \fIr.in.lidar\fR and
\fIv.in.lidar\fR is that
\fIr.in.lidar\fR creates a raster instead of just importing the
points into GRASS GIS. However, \fIr.in.lidar\fR does not merely
rasterizes the points from the point cloud. \fIr.in.lidar\fR
uses binning to derive values for individual raster cells,
so the value of a cell is typically an aggregation of values
of individual points falling into one cell.
In general binning is the conversion of points into a regular grid.
The binning of points with X and Y coordinates starts with the overlay
of a grid of bins over the points.
.PP
In the basic case, binning is a method which counts the number of
points which fall into one raster cell, i.e. bin. The number of points
per cell (bin) indicates the density of points in the point cloud.
The cell (bin) is always square or rectangular in case of
\fIr.in.lidar\fR because the result is GRASS GIS 2D raster.
The result of binning where the number of point per cell is counted
is sometimes called 2D (two dimensional) histogram because
a histogram is used in univariate statistics (in one dimension)
to count the number samples falling into a given bin.
.PP
\fI
Figure: The binning on left was used to count number of points per
(sometimes also called 2D histogram). The numbers in cells are
examples of counts, the rest is represented by the color.
The binning on right was used with mean to create a surface
based on the values associated with the points. The numbers
show examples of cell values. Note also the cells without any points
which were assigned the NULL value.
\fR
The basic concept of binning is extended when the points have another
value associated with them. For LiDAR data this value can be the Z
coordinate or intensity. The value for a given cell (bin) is computed
using univariate statistics from the values of all points in the cell.
For example, computing the mean value of Z coordinates can yield
a raster representing the digital elevation model. Another example is
the range of Z coordinates which can be used as a rough estimate of
vegetation height.
.SS Statistics
Available statistics for populating the output raster map are:
.IP "n" 4m
.br
This computes the number (count) of points per cell. The result
is a indicator of spatially variable density of points in the given
area.
.IP "min" 4m
.br
This finds the minimum of point values in each cell.
It can be useful when finding topography in a forested or urban
environment and there is a lot of points per one cells (terrain is
oversampled considering the desired resolution).
It can also create surfaces independent on the noise from premature
hits as it will always select the lowest point.
.IP "max" 4m
.br
This finds the maximum of point values in each cell.
In connection with \fBbase_raster\fR it can yield maximum vegetation
of feature height per cell.
For this purpose, it is usually much more appropriate than \fImean\fR
which would yield heights mostly influenced by the vertical
distribution of points.
.IP "range" 4m
.br
This computes the range of point values in each cell.
The range of Z coordinates per cell can be used as a rough estimate of
vegetation height when the cells are small enough, slopes low
and the area is mostly vegetated.
However, for more profound analysis, the base raster together with
different statistics is recommended.
.IP "sum" 4m
.br
This computes the sum of point values per cell.
This is useful especially when intensity is used as a value
(flags \fB\-i\fR and \fB\-j\fR).
.IP "mean" 4m
.br
This is a mean (average) value of point values in cell.
When used with Z coordinates (the default) and points from the ground
class, the resulting raster is a digital elevation model.
When intensity is used as a point value, the resulting raster contains
mean intensity per cell.
Note that \fImean\fR gives heights influenced by the vertical
distribution of points
.IP "stddev" 4m
.br
This computes the standard deviation of point values for each
cell.
.IP "variance" 4m
.br
This computes the variance of point values for each cell.
Variance and derivatives use the biased estimator (n)
[note that this might be subject to change].
.IP "coeff_var" 4m
.br
This computes the coefficient of variance of point values for each
cell. Coefficient of variance is given in percentage and defined as
(stddev/mean)*100.
.IP "median" 4m
.br
This computes the median of point values for each cell
.IP "percentile" 4m
.br
p\u\fIth\fR\d (nth) percentile of points in cell
.IP "skewness" 4m
.br
This is a skewness of point values in cell
.IP "trimmean" 4m
.br
This is a trimmed mean of point values in cell.
Trimmed mean also know as truncated mean is a mean
computed after discarding values at the low end and at the high end.
How many values to discard is given by the \fBtrim\fR option
in percent. In statistics the usual percentage of trimmed values ranges
from 5 to 25 percent.
Note that different statistics have different memory requirements
(see below for details).
.SS Filtering
Points falling outside the current computational region will be skipped.
This includes points falling \fIexactly\fR on the southern region
bound. To capture those adjust the region with:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region s=s\-0.000001
\fR
.fi
See \fIg.region\fR for details about
computation region handling in GRASS GIS.
.PP
The \fBzrange\fR parameter may be used for filtering the input data by
vertical extent. Example uses include
filtering out extreme outliers and outliers on relatively flat terrain.
This parameter can be also used for cutting the point cloud into
vertical sections preparing it for further processing
by separate sections, together as if it would be an imagery group
(see \fIi.group\fR), or combined into
a 3D raster using \fIr.to.rast3\fR.
In for these last examples, it might actually be more advantageous
to use \fIr3.in.lidar\fR module.
The \fBzrange\fR parameter is especially powerful when used
together with the \fBbase_raster\fR parameter. The \fBzrange\fR
is applied to Z values after the \fBbase_raster\fR reduction.
.PP
\fI
Figure: This is the principle of zrange filter. Points with the
Z coordinate value below the lower value in the range (here 180)
are filtered out (blue points) and same applies for points above
higher value in the range (here 250). All other points are preserved
(green points).
\fR
.PP
A LiDAR pulse can have multiple returns. The first return values can be
used to obtain a digital surface model (DSM) where e.g. canopy cover is
represented. The last return values can be used to obtain a digital
terrain model (DTM) where e.g. the forest floor instead of canopy
cover is represented. The \fBreturn_filter\fR option allows selecting
one of first, mid, or last returns. Return number and number of returns
in the pulse associated with each point are compared to determine
if the point is first, mid, or last return.
.PP
LiDAR points often come as already classified into standardized classes.
For example, class number 2 represents ground. For other classes see
LAS format specification in references. The \fBclass_filter\fR option
allows selecting one or more classes using numbers (integers) separated
by comma.
.PP
In varied terrain the user may find that \fImin\fR maps make for a good
noise filter as most LIDAR noise is from premature hits. The \fImin\fR map
may also be useful to find the underlying topography in a forested or urban
environment if the cells are oversampled.
.PP
The user can use a combination of \fIr.in.lidar\fR \fBoutput\fR maps
to create custom raster\-based filters, for examplee, use
\fIr.mapcalc\fR to create
a mean\-(2*stddev) map. (In this example the user may want to
include a lower bound filter in \fIr.mapcalc\fR to remove highly
variable points (small \fIn\fR) or run \fIr.neighbors\fR to
smooth the stddev map before further use.)
.PP
Note that proper filtering of the input points in not only critical for
the analysis itself but it can also speed up the processing.
.SS Reduction to a base raster
For analysis of features on the terrain surface, especially vegetation
it is advantageous to remove the influence of the terrain on heights
because the height above the terrain is important (e.g. height of
a tree) rather than height of the top of the tree above the see level.
In this case, the base raster would be digital elevation model
which can be one derived from the point cloud, or obtained in
some other way. LiDAR data often come with precomputed DEMs
(quality should be checked in this case) and there is often a DEM
available for a given area (fit with the point cloud, especially
vertical, and resolution should be checked).
.PP
\fI
Figure: This is a profile of base raster (in orange) representing
digital elevation model and selected points, e.g. first return,
from point cloud (green dots). By default the points would create
a digital surface model (thin brown line) but after reducing the
Z coordinates using the base raster, the created surface is a
derived from the height of points relative to the base raster.
\fR
The usage of base raster is not limited to digital elevation model.
The base raster can be any surface which has some relation to the
point values, for example digital surface model representing
top of the canopy.
.SS Setting extent and resolution
.PP
Since the creation of raster maps depends on the computational
region settings (extent and resolution), as default the current
region extents and resolution are used for the import. When using
the \fI\-e\fR flag along with the \fIresolution=value\fR
parameter, the region used for the new raster will be based
the point cloud extent and the provided resolution. It is therefore
recommended to first use the \fI\-s\fR flag to get the extents of the
LiDAR point cloud to be imported, then adjust the current region extent
and resolution accordingly, and only then proceed with the actual import.
Another option is to automatically set the region extents based on the
LAS dataset itself (\fI\-e\fR flag) along with the desired raster
resolution. The best option is to know the point cloud extent ahead,
e.g. from tiling scheme, and use it. See below for details.
.PP
Since the \fIr.in.lidar\fR generates a raster map through binning
from the original LiDAR points, the target computational region
extent and resolution have to be determined. A typical workflow
would involve the examination of the LAS data\(cqs associated
documentation or the scan of the LAS data file with
\fIr.in.lidar\fR\(cqs \fB\-s\fR (or \fB\-g\fR) flag to find the input
data\(cqs bounds.
.PP
Another option is to automatically set the region extents based on the
LAS dataset extent (\fB\-e\fR flag) along with the desired raster
resolution using the \fIresolution\fR parameter.
.PP
Using the \fB\-s\fR scan flag, the extent of the input data (and thus
point density) is printed. To check this is recommended before performing
the full import. The \fB\-g\fR shell style flag prints the extent suitable
as command line parameters for \fIg.region\fR.
.PP
A simpler option is to automatically set the region extents based on the
LAS dataset (\fB\-e\fR flag) along with the target raster resolution using
the \fIresolution\fR parameter. Also here it is recommended to verify
and optimize the resulting region settings with \fIg.region\fR prior
to importing the dataset.
.SH NOTES
.SS Format and projection support
The typical file extensions for the LAS format are .las and .laz
(compressed). The compressed LAS (.laz) format can be imported only if
libLAS has been compiled with LASzip support. It is also recommended to
compile libLAS with GDAL which is used to test if the LAS projection
matches that of the GRASS location.
.SS LAS file import preparations
Note that the scanning (\fB\-s\fR or \fB\-g\fR flags) needs to iterate
over the whole point cloud. This will take a long time for large
datasets, so if the user knows the approximate extent of the dataset,
for example because it dataset for one county or tiling scheme is
available as vector polygons, it is much more advantageous to provide
the extent information instead of retrieving it from the dataset.
The same applies to the \fB\-e\fR flag which also needs to perform
scanning before the binning begins.
.PP
Also note that the scanning does not apply any filters, so the
extent determined by scanning can be theoretically bigger than
the extent actively used during the binning.
This behavior ensures that the newly created raster has always
the same extent regardless the filters used.
However, for most cases (considering the point cloud and the resolution
used) there is no difference between the extent without filters applied
and the extent if the filters would be applied.
.SS Memory consumption
.PP
While the \fBinput\fR file can be arbitrarily large, \fIr.in.lidar\fR
will use a large amount of system memory (RAM) for large raster regions
(> 10000x10000 pixels).
If the module refuses to start complaining that there isn\(cqt enough memory,
use the \fBpercent\fR parameter to run the module in several passes.
In addition using a less precise map format (CELL [integer] or
FCELL [floating point]) will use less memory than a DCELL
[double precision floating point] \fBoutput\fR map.
For \fBmethod\fR=\fIn\fR, the CELL format is used
automatically.
.PP
The \fImean\fR and \fIrange\fR methods will use average amount
of memory (comparing to other methods).
Methods such as \fIn, min, max\fR, and \fIsum\fR will use
less memory,
while \fIstddev, variance\fR, and \fIcoeff_var\fR will use more.
.PP
The memory usage for regular statistics mentioned above is based solely
on region (raster) size.
However, the aggregate functions \fImedian, percentile, skewness\fR
and \fItrimmean\fR will use more memory and may not be
appropriate for use with arbitrarily large input files without
a small value for the \fBpercent\fR option because unlike
the other statistics memory use for these also depends on
the number of data points.
.PP
The default map \fBtype\fR=FCELL is intended as compromise between
preserving data precision and limiting system resource consumption.
.SS Trim option
.PP
Trim option value is used only when calculating trimmed mean values.
Attempt to use it with other statistical methods will result in an error.
.SH EXAMPLES
Simple example of binning of point from a LAS file into a newly created
raster map in an existing location/mapset (using metric units):
.br
.nf
\fC
# set the computational region automatically, resol. for binning is 5m
r.in.lidar \-e \-o input=points.las resolution=5 output=lidar_dem_mean
g.region raster=lidar_dem_mean \-p
r.univar lidar_dem_mean
\fR
.fi
.SS Finding suitable extent and resolution
Using the \fB\-s\fR scan flag, the extent of the input data (and thus
point density) is printed. To check this is recommended before performing
the full import. The \fB\-g\fR shell style flag prints the extent suitable
as command line parameters for \fIg.region\fR.
.PP
A simpler option is to automatically set the region extents based on the
LAS dataset (\fB\-e\fR flag) along with the target raster resolution using
the \fIresolution\fR parameter. Also here it is recommended to verify
and optimize the resulting region settings with \fIg.region\fR prior
to importing the dataset.
.PP
For the output raster map, a \fBsuitable resolution\fR can be found by
dividing the number of input points by the area covered (this requires
an iterative approach as outlined here):
.br
.nf
\fC
# print LAS metadata (Number of Points)
r.in.lidar \-p input=points.las
#   Number of Point Records: 1287775
# scan for LAS points cloud extent
r.in.lidar \-sg input=points.las output=dummy \-o
# n=2193507.740000 s=2190053.450000 e=6070237.920000 w=6066629.860000 b=\-3.600000 t=906.000000
# set computation region to this extent
g.region n=2193507.740000 s=2190053.450000 e=6070237.920000 w=6066629.860000 \-p
# print resulting extent
g.region \-p
#  rows:       3454
#  cols:       3608
# points_per_cell = n_points / (rows * cols)
# Here: 1287775 / (3454 * 3608) = 0.1033359 LiDAR points/raster cell
# As this is too low, we need to select a lower raster resolution
g.region res=5 \-ap
#  rows:       692
#  cols:       723
#  Now: 1287775 / (692 * 723) = 2.573923 LiDAR points/raster cell
# import as mean
r.in.lidar input=points.las output=lidar_dem_mean method=mean \-o
# import as max
r.in.lidar input=points.las output=lidar_dem_max method=max \-o
# import as p\(cqth percentile of the values
r.in.lidar input=points.las output=lidar_dem_percentile_95 \(rs
           method=percentile pth=95 \-o
\fR
.fi
.br
\fIMean value DEM in perspective view, imported from LAS file\fR
.PP
Further hints: how to calculate number of LiDAR points/square meter:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region \-e
  # Metric location:
  # points_per_sq_m = n_points / (ns_extent * ew_extent)
  # Lat/Lon location:
  # points_per_sq_m = n_points / (ns_extent * ew_extent*cos(lat) * (1852*60)^2)
\fR
.fi
.SS Serpent Mound dataset
This example is analogous to the example used in the GRASS wiki page for
importing LAS as raster DEM.
.PP
The sample LAS data are in the file \(dqSerpent Mound Model LAS Data.las\(dq,
available at
appliedimagery.com:
.br
.nf
\fC
# print LAS file info
r.in.lidar \-p input=\(dqSerpent Mound Model LAS Data.las\(dq
# using v.in.lidar to create a new location
# create location with projection information of the LAS data
v.in.lidar \-i input=\(dqSerpent Mound Model LAS Data.las\(dq location=Serpent_Mound
# quit and restart GRASS in the newly created location \(dqSerpent_Mound\(dq
# scan the extents of the LAS data
r.in.lidar \-sg input=\(dqSerpent Mound Model LAS Data.las\(dq
# set the region to the extents of the LAS data, align to resolution
g.region n=4323641.57 s=4320942.61 w=289020.90 e=290106.02 res=1 \-ap
# import as raster DEM
r.in.lidar input=\(dqSerpent Mound Model LAS Data.las\(dq \(rs
           output=Serpent_Mound_Model_LAS_Data method=mean
\fR
.fi
.PP
\fIFigure: Elevation for the whole area of Serpent Mound dataset\fR
.SS Height above ground
The mean height above ground of the points can be computed for each
raster cell (the ground elevation is given by the raster map
elevation):
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=elevation \-p
r.in.lidar input=points.las output=mean_height_above_ground base_raster=elevation method=mean
\fR
.fi
In this type of computation, it might be advantageous to change the resolution
to match the precision of the points rather than deriving it from the base raster.
.SS Multiple file input
The file option requres a file that contains a list of file names with the full
path. For example, a list of files in the directory /home/user/data:
.br
.nf
\fC
points1.laz
points2.laz
points3.laz
\fR
.fi
would be lised in the file as:
.br
.nf
\fC
/home/user/data/points1.laz
/home/user/data/points2.laz
/home/user/data/points3.laz
\fR
.fi
On Linux and OSX, this file can be automatically generated with the command:
.br
.nf
\fC
ls /home/user/data/*.laz > /home/user/data/filelist.txt
\fR
.fi
On Windows:
.br
.nf
\fC
dir /b c:\(rsusers\(rsuser\(rsdata\(rs*.laz > c:\(rsusers\(rsuser\(rsdata\(rsfilelist.txt
\fR
.fi
The mean height above ground example above would then be:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=elevation \-p
r.in.lidar file=/home/user/data/filelist.txt output=mean_height_above_ground base_raster=elevation method=mean
\fR
.fi
In Python, the list of files can be created using the \fIglob\fR
Python module:
.br
.nf
\fC
import glob
import gscript
file_list_name = \(cq/home/user/data/filelist.txt\(cq
with open(, mode=\(cqw\(cq) as file_list:
    for path in glob.iglob(\(cq/home/user/data/lidar/*.las\(cq):
        file_list.write(path + \(dq\(rsn\(dq)
gscript.run_command(\(cqr.in.lidar\(cq, file=file_list_name,
                    output=\(cqmean_height_above_ground\(cq,
                    base_raster=\(cqelevation\(cq method=\(cqmean\(cq)
\fR
.fi
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
The \(dqnan\(dq value (as defined in C language) can leak into
\fIcoeff_var\fR raster maps. Cause is unknown. Possible
work\-around is: r.null setnull=nan or
r.mapcalc \(cqno_nan = if(map == map, map, null())\(cq.
.IP \(bu 4n
Only one method can be applied for a single run and multiple map
output from a single run
(e.g. method=string[,string,...] output=name[,name,...]
or n=string mean=string) is no supported.
.RE
If you encounter any problems (or solutions!) please contact the GRASS
Development Team.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
g.region,
r.in.xyz,
r.mapcalc,
r.univar,
v.in.lidar,
r3.in.lidar,
v.vect.stats
.br
v.lidar.correction,
v.lidar.edgedetection,
v.lidar.growing,
v.outlier,
v.surf.bspline
\fR
.br
Trimmed mean
(Truncated mean, Wikipedia article),
OpenTopography
(LiDAR point cloud repository)
.SH REFERENCES
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
V. Petras, A. Petrasova, J. Jeziorska, H. Mitasova (2016):
\fIProcessing UAV and lidar point clouds in GRASS GIS\fR.
XXIII ISPRS Congress 2016 [ISPRS Archives, ResearchGate]
.IP \(bu 4n
ASPRS LAS format
.IP \(bu 4n
LAS library
.IP \(bu 4n
LAS library C API documentation
.RE
.SH AUTHORS
Markus Metz
.br
Vaclav Petras,
NCSU GeoForAll Lab
(base_raster option, documentation)
.br
based on \fIr.in.xyz\fR by Hamish Bowman and Volker Wichmann
.br
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
r.in.lidar source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
