.TH r.in.srtm 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.in.srtm.py\fR\fR  \- Imports SRTM HGT files into raster map.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, import, SRTM
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.in.srtm.py\fR
.br
\fBr.in.srtm.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.in.srtm.py\fR [\-\fB1\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-1\fR" 4m
.br
Input is a 1\-arcsec tile (default: 3\-arcsec)
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of SRTM input tile (file without .hgt.zip extension)
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map (default: input tile)
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.in.srtm\fR imports SRTM HGT files into GRASS.
SRTM Version 1 and improved Version 2 data sets can be downloaded from
NASA at this site:
.br
http://dds.cr.usgs.gov/srtm/
.PP
Gap\-filled SRTM Version 3 data can be downloaded from USGS at this site:
.br
https://e4ftl01.cr.usgs.gov/MEASURES/SRTMGL3.003/2000.02.11/
.SH NOTES
SRTM tiles are of 1 degree by 1 degree size. The SRTM filename contains the
coordinates which refer to the \fBcenter\fR of the lower left pixel (e.g., N51E010:
lower left cell center at 10E, 51N). To identify a tile name, a grid can be easily
visualized by \fId.grid\fR:
.br
.nf
\fC
d.grid size=1
\fR
.fi
To import TOPEX/SRTM30 PLUS data, use \fIr.in.bin\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.in.bin,
r.in.srtm.region (Addon),
r.in.nasadem (Addon)
\fR
.PP
The Shuttle Radar Topography Mission
homepage at NASA\(cqs JPL.
.br
The SRTM Web Forum
.SH REFERENCES
M. Neteler, 2005. SRTM and VMAP0 data in OGR and GRASS. \fIGRASS Newsletter\fR, Vol.3, pp. 2\-6, June 2005. ISSN 1614\-8746.
.SH AUTHORS
Markus Neteler
.br
Improved by W. Kyngesburye and H. Bowman
.br
Update for SRTM V3 by Markus Metz
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r.in.srtm source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
