.TH r.in.aster 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.in.aster.py\fR\fR  \- Georeference, rectify, and import Terra\-ASTER imagery and relative DEMs using gdalwarp.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, import, imagery, ASTER, elevation
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.in.aster.py\fR
.br
\fBr.in.aster.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.in.aster.py\fR \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBproctype\fR=\fIstring\fR \fBband\fR=\fIstring\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input ASTER image
.IP "\fBproctype\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
ASTER imagery processing type (Level 1A, Level 1B, or relative DEM)
.br
Options: \fIL1A, L1B, DEM\fR
.br
Default: \fIL1B\fR
.IP "\fBband\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
List L1A or L1B band to translate (1,2,3n,...), or enter \(cqall\(cq to translate all bands
.br
Default: \fIall\fR
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Base name for output raster map (band number will be appended to base name)
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.in.aster\fR rectifies, georeferences, and imports Terra\-ASTER imagery
to current location using gdalwarp, hdf 4, and r.in.gdal, using projection parameters
from g.proj. It can import Level 1A, Level 1B, and relative DEM products.
.PP
The program may be run interactively or non\-interactively from the command
line. In either case, the user must specify an \fBinput\fR *.hdf file name,
the \fBtype\fR of processing used, the image \fBband\fR to import, and an
\fBoutput\fR GRASS raster map name.
.PP
The \fBtype\fR parameter can take values of L1A, L1B, or DEM.
.PP
The \fBband\fR parameter can take values of 1, 2, 3n, 3b, 4\-14
.SH NOTES
\fIr.in.aster\fR requires GDAL library to be in the user\(cqs path and the hdf 4 driver
to be installed. The GDAL library must be compiled with hdf support.
.SH AUTHORS
Michael Barton, Arizona State University and Paul Kelly
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r.in.aster source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
