.TH r.in.bin 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.in.bin\fR\fR  \- Import a binary raster file into a GRASS raster map layer.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, import
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.in.bin\fR
.br
\fBr.in.bin \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.in.bin\fR [\-\fBfdsbh\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBtitle\fR=\fIphrase\fR]   [\fBbytes\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBheader\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBbands\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBorder\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBnorth\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBsouth\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBeast\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBwest\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBrows\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBcols\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBanull\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBflip\fR=\fIstring\fR[,\fIstring\fR,...]]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-f\fR" 4m
.br
Import as floating\-point data (default: integer)
.IP "\fB\-d\fR" 4m
.br
Import as double\-precision floating\-point data (default: integer)
.IP "\fB\-s\fR" 4m
.br
Signed data (two\(cqs complement)
.IP "\fB\-b\fR" 4m
.br
Byte swap the data during import
.IP "\fB\-h\fR" 4m
.br
Get region info from GMT style header
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of binary raster file to be imported
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Output name or prefix if several bands are imported
.IP "\fBtitle\fR=\fIphrase\fR" 4m
.br
Title for resultant raster map
.IP "\fBbytes\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Number of bytes per cell
.br
Options: \fI1, 2, 4, 8\fR
.IP "\fBheader\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Header size in bytes
.br
Default: \fI0\fR
.IP "\fBbands\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Number of bands in input file
.br
Bands must be in band\-sequential order
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBorder\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Output byte order
.br
Options: \fIbig, little, native, swap\fR
.br
Default: \fInative\fR
.IP "\fBnorth\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Northern limit of geographic region (outer edge)
.IP "\fBsouth\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Southern limit of geographic region (outer edge)
.IP "\fBeast\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Eastern limit of geographic region (outer edge)
.IP "\fBwest\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Western limit of geographic region (outer edge)
.IP "\fBrows\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Number of rows
.IP "\fBcols\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Number of columns
.IP "\fBanull\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Set Value to NULL
.IP "\fBflip\fR=\fIstring[,\fIstring\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Flip input horizontal and/or vertical
.br
Options: \fIh, v\fR
.br
\fBh\fR: Flip input horizontal (East \- West)
.br
\fBv\fR: Flip input vertical (North \- South)
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.in.bin\fR allows the user to create a (binary) GRASS raster map layer
from a variety of binary raster data formats.
.PP
The \fB \-s\fR flag is used for importing two\(cqs\-complement signed data.
.PP
The \fB \-h\fR flag is used to read region information from a Generic
Mapping Tools (GMT) type binary header. It is compatible with GMT binary
grid types 1 and 2.
.PP
The north, south, east, and west field values are the coordinates of the
edges of the geographic region. The rows and cols values describe the dimensions
of the matrix of data to follow. If the input is a
GMT binary array
(\-h flag), the six dimension fields (north, south, east, west, rows and cols)
are obtained from the GMT header. If the bytes field is entered incorrectly an
error will be generated suggesting a closer bytes value.
.PP
\fIr.in.bin\fR can be used to import numerous binary arrays including:
ETOPO30, ETOPO\-5, ETOPO\-2, Globe DEM, BIL, AVHRR and GMT binary arrays
(ID 1 & 2).
.SH NOTES
If optional parameters are not supplied, \fBr.in.bin\fR attempts
to calculate them. For example if the rows and columns parameters are
not entered, \fBr.in.bin\fR automatically calculates them by subtracting
south from north and west from east. This will only produce correct
results if the raster resolution equals 1. Also, if the north, south,
east, and west parameters are not entered, \fBr.in.bin\fR assigns
them from the rows and columns parameters. In the AVHRR example (see below),
the raster would be assigned a north=128, south=0, east=128, west=0.
.PP
The geographic coordinates north, south, east, and west
describe the outer edges of the geographic region. They run along the edges of
the cells at the edge of the geographic region and \fInot\fR through the
center of the cells at the edges.
.PP
Eastern limit of geographic region (in projected coordinates must be east
of the west parameter value, but in geographical coordinates will wrap
around the globe; user errors can be detected by comparing the \fIewres\fR and
\fInsres\fR values of the imported map layer carefully).
.br
Western limit of geographic region (in projected coordinates must be west
of the east parameter value, but in geographical coordinates will wrap
around the globe; user errors can be detected by comparing the \fIewres\fR and
\fInsres\fR values of the imported map layer carefully).
.PP
Notes on (non)signed data:
.PP
If you use the \fB\-s\fR flag, the highest bit is the
sign bit. If this is 1, the data is negative, and the data interval is half of
the unsigned (not exactly).
.PP
This flag is only used if \fBbytes=\fR 1. If \fBbytes\fR is greater
than 1, the flag is ignored.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS GTOPO30 DEM
The following is a sample call of \fIr.in.bin\fR to import
GTOPO30 DEM
data:
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
r.in.bin \-sb input=E020N90.DEM output=gtopo30 bytes=2 north=90 south=40
east=60 west=20 r=6000 c=4800
\fR
.fi
.PP
(you can add \(dqanull=\-9999\(dq if you want sea level to have a NULL value)
.SS GMT
The following is a sample call of \fIr.in.bin\fR to import a GMT
type 1 (float) binary array:
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
r.in.bin \-hf input=sample.grd output=sample.grass
\fR
.fi
.PP
(\-b could be used to swap bytes if required)
.SS AVHRR
The following is a sample call of \fIr.in.bin\fR to import an AVHRR image:
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
r.in.bin in=p07_b6.dat out=avhrr c=128 r=128
\fR
.fi
.SS ETOPO2
The following is a sample call of \fIr.in.bin\fR to import
ETOPO2 DEM data (here full data set):
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
r.in.bin ETOPO2.dos.bin out=ETOPO2min r=5400 c=10800 n=90 s=\-90 w=\-180 e=180 bytes=2
r.colors ETOPO2min rules=terrain
\fR
.fi
.SS TOPEX/SRTM30 PLUS
The following is a sample call of \fIr.in.bin\fR to import
SRTM30 PLUS data:
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
r.in.bin \-sb input=e020n40.Bathymetry.srtm output=e020n40_topex \(rs
         bytes=2 north=40 south=\-10 east=60 west=20 r=6000 c=4800
r.colors e020n40_topex rules=etopo2
\fR
.fi
.SS GPCP
The following is a sample call of \fIr.in.bin\fR to import GPCP 1DD v1.2 data:
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
YEAR=\(dq2000\(dq
MONTH=\(dq01\(dq
# number of days of this month
MDAYS=\(gadate \-d\(dq${YEAR}\-${MONTH}\-01 + 1 month \- 1 day\(dq +%d\(ga
r.in.bin in=gpcp_1dd_v1.2_p1d.${YEAR}${MONTH} out=gpcp_${YEAR}.${MONTH}. \(rs
         order=big bytes=4 \-f header=1440 anull=\-99999 \(rs
         n=90 s=\-90 w=0 e=360 rows=180 cols=360 bands=$MDAYS
\fR
.fi
.PP
The following is a sample call of \fIr.in.bin\fR to import GPCP v2.2 data:
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
r.in.bin in=gpcp_v2.2_psg.1979 out=gpcp_1979. \(rs
         order=big bytes=4 \-f header=576 anull=\-99999 \(rs
         n=90 s=\-90 w=0 e=360 rows=72 cols=144 bands=12
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.import,
r.out.bin,
r.in.ascii,
r.out.ascii,
r.in.gdal,
r.out.gdal,
r.in.srtm
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Jacques Bouchard, France (bouchard@onera.fr)
.br
Bob Covill, Canada (bcovill@tekmap.ns.ca)
.br
Markus Metz
.br
Man page: Zsolt Felker (felker@c160.pki.matav.hu)
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r.in.bin source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
