.TH r.in.ascii 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.in.ascii\fR\fR  \- Converts a GRASS ASCII raster file to binary raster map.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, import, conversion, ASCII
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.in.ascii\fR
.br
\fBr.in.ascii \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.in.ascii\fR [\-\fBs\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBtype\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBtitle\fR=\fIphrase\fR]   [\fBmultiplier\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBnull_value\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-s\fR" 4m
.br
SURFER (Golden Software) ASCII file will be imported
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input file to be imported
.br
\(cq\-\(cq for standard input
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map
.IP "\fBtype\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Type of raster map to be created
.br
Default: CELL for integer values, DCELL for floating\-point values
.br
Options: \fICELL, FCELL, DCELL\fR
.br
\fBCELL\fR: Integer
.br
\fBFCELL\fR: Single precision floating point
.br
\fBDCELL\fR: Double precision floating point
.IP "\fBtitle\fR=\fIphrase\fR" 4m
.br
Title for resultant raster map
.IP "\fBmultiplier\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Multiplier for ASCII data
.br
Default: read from header
.IP "\fBnull_value\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
String representing NULL value data cell
.br
Default: read from header
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.in.ascii\fR allows a user to create a (binary) GRASS raster map
layer from an ASCII raster input file with (optional) TITLE.
.PP
The GRASS ASCII \fBinput\fR file has a header section which describes
the location and size of the data, followed by the data itself.
.PP
The header has 6 lines:
.br
.nf
\fC
north:   xxxxxx.xx
south:   xxxxxx.xx
east:    xxxxxx.xx
west:    xxxxxx.xx
rows:    r
cols:    c
\fR
.fi
The north, south, east, and west field values entered
are the coordinates of the edges of the geographic region.
The rows and cols field values entered describe the dimensions
of the matrix of data to follow.
The data which follows is \fIr\fR rows of \fIc\fR integers.
.PP
Optionally the following parameters can be defined in the header section:
.br
.nf
\fC
null: nn
type: float
multiplier: 2.
\fR
.fi
.PP
\(dqnull\(dq defines a string or number to be converted to NULL value (no
data).
.br
\(dqtype\(dq defines the data type (int, float double) and is not required.
.br
\(dqmultiplier\(dq is an optional parameter to multiply each cell value.
.SH NOTES
The geographic coordinates north, south, east, and west
describe the outer edges of the geographic region.  They
run along the edges of the cells at the edge of the
geographic region and \fInot\fR through the center of the cells
at the edges.
The NW value occurs at the beginning of the first line of data, and the
SW value occurs at the beginning of the last line of data.
.PP
The data (which follows the header section) must contain
r \fIx\fR c values, but it is not necessary
that all the data for a row be on one line. A row may be
split over many lines.
.PP
The imported cell type can be forced using the \fBtype\fR option,
default is auto\-detection.
.PP
The header information in ESRI Raster ASCII files differs from GRASS.
To convert an Arc/Info (ArcView) ASCII grid file into GRASS, see
\fIr.in.gdal\fR.
.PP
SURFER (Golden Software) ASCII files may be imported by passing the \fB\-s\fR flag.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following is a sample \fBinput\fR file to \fIr.in.ascii\fR:
.br
.nf
\fC
north:                   4299000.00
south:                   4247000.00
east:                     528000.00
west:                     500000.00
rows:                         10
cols:                         15
null:                      \-9999
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.import,
r.out.ascii,
r.in.gdal,
r.out.gdal,
r.in.bin,
r3.in.ascii
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Shapiro, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory
.br
Surfer support by Roger Miller
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
r.in.ascii source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
