.TH r.li.mpa 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.li.mpa\fR\fR  \- Calculates mean pixel attribute index on a raster map
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, landscape structure analysis, patch index
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.li.mpa\fR
.br
\fBr.li.mpa \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.li.mpa\fR \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBconfig\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map
.IP "\fBconfig\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Configuration file
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.li.mpa\fR (mean pixel attribute) calculates the average value of the
attribute of all the non\-null cells in the sampling area as:
.br
.br
with:
.br
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBi\fR: attribute
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBm\fR: number of non\-null attributes in the sampling area
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBwi\fR: number of cells of attribute i
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBsize\fR: size of sampling area (in cells)
.RE
.SH NOTES
Do not use absolute path names for the \fBconfig\fR and \fBoutput\fR
file/map parameters.
If the \(dqmoving window\(dq method was selected in \fBg.gui.rlisetup\fR, then the
output will be a raster map, otherwise an ASCII file will be generated in
the folder C:\(rsUsers\(rsuserxy\(rsAppData\(rsRoaming\(rsGRASS7\(rsr.li\(rsoutput\(rs
(MS\-Windows) or $HOME/.grass7/r.li/output/ (GNU/Linux).
.PP
If the input raster map contains only NULL values then \fIr.li.mpa\fR considers to
have 0 patches.
.br
If area is 0 \fIr.li.mpa\fR returns \-1; it is possible only if the
raster is masked
.br
If you want to change these \-1 values to NULL, run subsequently on the resulting map:
.br
.nf
\fC
r.null setnull=\-1 input=my_map
\fR
.fi
after index calculation.
.SH EXAMPLES
To calculate the mean pixel attribute index on map \fImy_map\fR, using
\fImy_conf\fR configuration file (previously defined with
\fIg.gui.rlisetup\fR) and saving results in \fImy_out\fR, run:
.br
.nf
\fC
r.li.mpa input=my_map conf=my_conf output=my_out
\fR
.fi
.PP
Forest map (Spearfish sample dataset) example:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=landcover.30m \-p
r.mapcalc \(dqforests = if(landcover.30m >= 41 && landcover.30m <= 43,1,null())\(dq
r.li.mpa input=forests conf=movwindow7 out=forests_mpa_mov7
r.univar forests_mpa_mov7
\fR
.fi
.PP
Forest map (North Carolina sample dataset) example:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=landclass96 \-p
r.mapcalc \(dqforests = if(landclass96 == 5, 1, null() )\(dq
r.li.mpa input=forests conf=movwindow7 out=forests_mpa_mov7
# verify
r.univar forests_mpa_mov7
r.to.vect input=forests output=forests type=area
d.mon wx0
d.rast forests_mpa_mov7
d.vect forests type=boundary
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.li \- package overview
.br
g.gui.rlisetup
\fR
.SH REFERENCES
McGarigal, K., and B. J. Marks. 1995. FRAGSTATS: spatial pattern
analysis program for quantifying landscape structure. USDA For. Serv.
Gen. Tech. Rep. PNW\-351. (PDF)
.SH AUTHORS
Serena Pallecchi student of Computer Science University of Pisa (Italy).
.br
Commission from Faunalia Pontedera (PI), Italy (www.faunalia.it)
.br
Markus Metz
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r.li.mpa source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
