.TH r.li.edgedensity 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.li.edgedensity\fR\fR  \- Calculates edge density index on a raster map, using a 4 neighbour algorithm
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, landscape structure analysis, patch index
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.li.edgedensity\fR
.br
\fBr.li.edgedensity \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.li.edgedensity\fR [\-\fBb\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBconfig\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBpatch_type\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-b\fR" 4m
.br
Exclude border edges
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map
.IP "\fBconfig\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Configuration file
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map
.IP "\fBpatch_type\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
The value of the patch type
.br
It can be integer, double or float; it will be changed in function of map type
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.li.edgedensity \fRcalculates:
.br
.br
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
the density of all edges of patch type \fIk\fR
, or
.IP \(bu 4n
the density of all edges in the sampling area if \fIk\fR is
not specified,
.RE
.PP
with:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBk\fR: patch type
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBm\fR: number of patch types
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBn\fR: number of edge segments of patch type k
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBeik \fR:total edge length in
the landscape involving patch type k
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBArea\fR: total landscape area
.RE
.PP
The unit is meters per hectare.
.SH NOTES
Do not use absolute path names for the \fBconfig\fR and \fBoutput\fR
file/map parameters.
If the \(dqmoving window\(dq method was selected in \fBg.gui.rlisetup\fR, then the
output will be a raster map, otherwise an ASCII file will be generated in
the folder C:\(rsUsers\(rsuserxy\(rsAppData\(rsRoaming\(rsGRASS7\(rsr.li\(rsoutput\(rs
(MS\-Windows) or $HOME/.grass7/r.li/output/ (GNU/Linux).
.PP
If the input raster map contains only NULL values then \fIr.li.edgedensity\fR
consider to have 0 patches.
.br
If area is 0 \fIr.li.edgedensity\fR returns NULL; this is only possible if input
raster is masked.
.SH EXAMPLES
To calculate the edge density index on map \fImy_map\fR, using
\fImy_conf\fR configuration file (previously defined with
\fIg.gui.rlisetup\fR) and saving results in \fImy_out\fR, run:
.br
.nf
\fC
r.li.edgedensity input=my_map conf=my_conf output=my_out
\fR
.fi
To calculate edge density index of patch_type 34, using
\(dqmy_conf\(dq configuration file and on map \(dqmy_map\(dq, saving results in \(dqmy_out\(dq
file run:
.br
.br
.nf
\fC
r.li.edgedensity input=my_map conf=my_conf output=my_out patch_type=34
\fR
.fi
.PP
Forest map (Spearfish sample dataset) example:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=landcover.30m \-p
r.mapcalc \(dqforests = if(landcover.30m >= 41 && landcover.30m <= 43,1,null())\(dq
r.li.edgedensity input=forests conf=movwindow7 out=forests_edgedens_mov7
r.univar forests_edgedens_mov7
\fR
.fi
.PP
Forest map (North Carolina sample dataset) example:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=landclass96 \-p
r.mapcalc \(dqforests = if(landclass96 == 5, 1, null() )\(dq
r.li.edgedensity input=forests conf=movwindow7 out=forests_edgedensity_mov7
# verify
r.univar forests_edgedensity_mov7
r.to.vect input=forests output=forests type=area
d.mon wx0
d.rast forests_edgedensity_mov7
d.vect forests type=boundary
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.li \- package overview
.br
g.gui.rlisetup
\fR
.SH REFERENCES
McGarigal, K., and B. J. Marks. 1995. FRAGSTATS: spatial pattern
analysis program for quantifying landscape structure. USDA For. Serv.
Gen. Tech. Rep. PNW\-351. (PDF)
.SH AUTHORS
Serena Pallecchi student of Computer Science University of Pisa (Italy).
.br
Commission from Faunalia Pontedera (PI), Italy (www.faunalia.it)
.br
Markus Metz
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r.li.edgedensity source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
