.TH r.li.pielou 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.li.pielou\fR\fR  \- Calculates Pielou\(cqs diversity index on a raster map
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, landscape structure analysis, diversity index
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.li.pielou\fR
.br
\fBr.li.pielou \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.li.pielou\fR \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBconfig\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map
.IP "\fBconfig\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Configuration file
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.li.pielou\fR  calculates the \(dqPielou\(cqs diversity index\(dq as:
.br
.br
with:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBJ\fR: Pielou eveness index
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBH\(cq\fR: Shannon index
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBS\fR: number of classes
.RE
.SH NOTES
Do not use absolute path names for the \fBconfig\fR and \fBoutput\fR
file/map parameters.
If the \(dqmoving window\(dq method was selected in \fBg.gui.rlisetup\fR, then the
output will be a raster map, otherwise an ASCII file will be generated in
the folder C:\(rsUsers\(rsuserxy\(rsAppData\(rsRoaming\(rsGRASS7\(rsr.li\(rsoutput\(rs
(MS\-Windows) or $HOME/.grass7/r.li/output/ (GNU/Linux).
.PP
If the input raster contains NULL value cells, \fIr.li.pielou\fR
returns NULL for these cells.
.SH EXAMPLES
To calculate Pielou\(cqs diversity index on map \fImy_map\fR, using
\fImy_conf\fR configuration file (previously defined with
\fIg.gui.rlisetup\fR) and saving results in \fImy_out\fR, run:
.br
.nf
\fC
r.li.pielou input=my_map conf=my_conf output=my_out
\fR
.fi
.PP
Forest map (Spearfish sample dataset) example:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=landcover.30m \-p
r.mapcalc \(dqforests = if(landcover.30m >= 41 && landcover.30m <= 43,1,null())\(dq
r.li.pielou input=forests conf=movwindow7 out=forests_pielou_mov7
r.univar forests_pielou_mov7
\fR
.fi
.PP
Forest map (North Carolina sample dataset) example:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=landclass96 \-p
r.mapcalc \(dqforests = if(landclass96 == 5, 1, null() )\(dq
r.li.pielou input=forests conf=movwindow7 out=forests_pielou_mov7
# verify
r.univar forests_pielou_mov7
r.to.vect input=forests output=forests type=area
d.mon wx0
d.rast forests_pielou_mov7
d.vect forests type=boundary
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.li \- package overview
.br
g.gui.rlisetup
\fR
.SH REFERENCES
McGarigal, K., and B. J. Marks. 1995. FRAGSTATS: spatial pattern
analysis program for quantifying landscape structure. USDA For. Serv.
Gen. Tech. Rep. PNW\-351. (PDF)
.SH AUTHORS
Luca Delucchi and Duccio Rocchini, Fondazione E. Mach (Italy), based on the \fIr.li.shannon\fR code
developed by Serena Pallecchi student of Computer Science University of Pisa (Italy).
.br
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r.li.pielou source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
