.TH r.li.renyi 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.li.renyi\fR\fR  \- Calculates Renyi\(cqs diversity index on a raster map
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, landscape structure analysis, diversity index
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.li.renyi\fR
.br
\fBr.li.renyi \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.li.renyi\fR \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBconfig\fR=\fIname\fR \fBalpha\fR=\fIstring\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map
.IP "\fBconfig\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Configuration file
.IP "\fBalpha\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Alpha value is the order of the generalized entropy
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.li.renyi\fR calculates the \(dqRenyi\(cqs diversity index\(dq as:
.br
.br
with:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBH\fR: Renyi entropy
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBalpha\fR: order of the generalized entropy
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBi\fR: patch type
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBS\fR: number of different patch types
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBpi\fR: proportional abundance of
patch type \fIi\fR
.RE
.SH NOTES
Do not use absolute path names for the \fBconfig\fR and \fBoutput\fR
file/map parameters.
If the \(dqmoving window\(dq method was selected in \fBg.gui.rlisetup\fR, then the
output will be a raster map, otherwise an ASCII file will be generated in
the folder C:\(rsUsers\(rsuserxy\(rsAppData\(rsRoaming\(rsGRASS7\(rsr.li\(rsoutput\(rs
(MS\-Windows) or $HOME/.grass7/r.li/output/ (GNU/Linux).
.PP
If the input raster map contains only NULL values then \fIr.li.renyi\fR
returns NULL.
.SH EXAMPLES
To calculate Renyi\(cqs diversity index on map \fImy_map\fR, using
\fImy_conf\fR configuration file (previously defined with
\fIg.gui.rlisetup\fR) and saving results in \fImy_out\fR, run:
.br
.nf
\fC
r.li.renyi input=my_map conf=my_conf output=my_out alpha=0.6
\fR
.fi
.PP
Forest map (Spearfish sample dataset) example:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=landcover.30m \-p
r.mapcalc \(dqforests = if(landcover.30m >= 41 && landcover.30m <= 43,1,null())\(dq
r.li.renyi input=forests conf=movwindow7 out=forests_renyi_mov7_a06 alpha=0.6
r.univar forests_renyi_mov7_a06
\fR
.fi
.PP
Forest map (North Carolina sample dataset) example:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=landclass96 \-p
r.mapcalc \(dqforests = if(landclass96 == 5, 1, null() )\(dq
r.li.renyi input=forests conf=movwindow7 out=forests_renyi_mov7
# verify
r.univar forests_renyi_mov7
r.to.vect input=forests output=forests type=area
d.mon wx0
d.rast forests_renyi_mov7
d.vect forests type=boundary
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.li \- package overview
.br
g.gui.rlisetup
\fR
.SH REFERENCES
McGarigal, K., and B. J. Marks. 1995. FRAGSTATS: spatial pattern
analysis program for quantifying landscape structure. USDA For. Serv.
Gen. Tech. Rep. PNW\-351. (PDF)
.SH AUTHORS
Luca Delucchi and Duccio Rocchini, Fondazione E. Mach (Italy), based on
the \fIr.li.shannon\fR code developed by Serena Pallecchi student of
Computer Science University of Pisa (Italy).
.br
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
r.li.renyi source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
