.TH r.mode 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.mode\fR\fR  \- Finds the mode of values in a cover map within areas assigned the same category value in a user\-specified base map.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, statistics, algebra
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.mode\fR
.br
\fBr.mode \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.mode\fR \fBbase\fR=\fIstring\fR \fBcover\fR=\fIstring\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIstring\fR  [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBbase\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Base map to be reclassified
.IP "\fBcover\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Coverage map
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Output map
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.mode\fR calculates the most frequently occurring value (i. e., mode)
of data contained in a \fIcover\fR raster map layer for areas assigned
the same category value in the user\-specified \fIbase\fR raster map
layer. These modes are stored in the new \fIoutput\fR map layer.
.PP
The \fIoutput\fR map is actually a \fIreclass\fR of the \fIbase\fR
map.
.PP
The \fBbase\fR parameter defines an existing raster map layer in the user\(cqs
current mapset search path. For each group of cells assigned the same
category value in the \fIbase\fR map, the mode of the values assigned
these cells in the \fIcover\fR map will be computed.
.PP
The \fBcover\fR parameter defines an existing raster map layer containing
the values to be used to compute the mode within each category of the
\fIbase\fR map.
.SH NOTES
The user should use the results of \fIr.mode\fR with care.
Since this utility assigns a value to each
cell which is based on global information (i.e., information at spatial
locations other than just the location of the cell itself), the resultant
map layer is only valid if the geographic region and mask settings are
the same as they were at the time that the result map was created.
.PP
Results are affected by the current region settings and mask.
.SH EXAMPLE
Mode of K\-factor (erosion) for Spearfish fields:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=fields \-p
r.mode base=fields cover=soils.Kfactor output=K.by.farm.mode
r.univar K.by.farm.mode
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIg.region\fR,
\fIr.category\fR,
\fIr.clump\fR,
\fIr.describe\fR,
\fIr.mapcalc\fR,
\fIr.mfilter\fR,
\fIr.neighbors\fR,
\fIr.reclass\fR,
\fIr.stats\fR,
\fIr.statistics\fR,
\fIr.univar\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Shapiro,
U.S.Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r.mode source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
