.TH r.out.pov 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.out.pov\fR\fR  \- Converts a raster map layer into a height\-field file for POV\-Ray.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, export, output
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.out.pov\fR
.br
\fBr.out.pov \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.out.pov\fR \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBhftype\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBbias\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBscale\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of output povray file (TGA height field file)
.IP "\fBhftype\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Height\-field type (0=actual heights 1=normalized)
.IP "\fBbias\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Elevation bias
.IP "\fBscale\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Vertical scaling factor
.SH DESCRIPTION
r.out.pov converts a user\-specified raster map layer (map==name) into a
height\-field file for POVray (tga==name). The hftype==value option (where
value is either 0 or 1) specifies the height\-field type. When the user
enters 0 the output will be actual heights. If entered 1 the cell\-values
will be normalized. If hftype is 0 (actual heights) the bias==value can
be used to add or subtract a value from heights. Use scale==value to scale
your heights by value. The GRASS program r.out.pov can be used to create
height\- field files for Persistence of Vision (POV) raytracer. POV can
use a height\-field defined in Targa (.TGA) image file format where the
RGB pixel values are 24 bits (3 bytes). A 16 bit unsigned integer height\-field
value is assigned as follows: RED = high byte, GREEN = low byte, BLUE =
empty.
.SH EXAMPLE
An example Povray script file may look like this:
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
#include \(dqshapes.inc\(dq
#include \(dqcolors.inc\(dq
#include \(dqtextures.inc\(dq
#declare Scale = 7;
light_source { <40000, Scale*3000, 5000> color MainLight }
camera {
   location < 23000, Scale*2000, 0>
   angle  90
   look_at < 23000, Scale*1400, 5000>
}
height_field  {
   tga \(dqdem.lr.tga\(dq
   smooth
   water_level 0.11  // 726 / 6553.6 = 0.111
    texture {
      pigment {
          image_map { // image is always projected from \-z, with front facing  +z, top to +Y
             ppm \(dqmap.lr.ppm\(dq
             once
          }
          rotate x*90 // align map to height_field
      }
    }
   finish {
          ambient 0.2         // Very dark shadows
          diffuse 0.8         // Whiten the whites
          phong 0.2           // shiny
          phong_size 100.0    // with tight highlights
          specular 0.5
          roughness 0.05
   }
   scale < 14500, Scale*6553.6, 13000 >
   translate <18300, 0, 1100>
}
\fR
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Klaus D. Meyer, GEUM.tec GbR, eMail: \fIGEUM.tec@geum.de\fR
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r.out.pov source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
