.TH r.out.mpeg 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.out.mpeg\fR\fR  \- Converts raster map series to MPEG movie.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, export, output, animation
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.out.mpeg\fR
.br
\fBr.out.mpeg \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.out.mpeg\fR [\-\fBc\fR] \fBview1\fR=\fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR,...]  [\fBview2\fR=\fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR,...]]   [\fBview3\fR=\fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR,...]]   [\fBview4\fR=\fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR,...]]  \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBquality\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 4m
.br
Convert on the fly, uses less disk space
.br
Requires r.out.ppm with stdout option
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBview1\fR=\fIname[,\fIname\fR,...]\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map(s) for view no.1
.IP "\fBview2\fR=\fIname[,\fIname\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map(s) for view no.2
.IP "\fBview3\fR=\fIname[,\fIname\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map(s) for view no.3
.IP "\fBview4\fR=\fIname[,\fIname\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map(s) for view no.4
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output file
.IP "\fBquality\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Quality factor (1 = highest quality, lowest compression)
.br
Options: \fI1\-5\fR
.br
Default: \fI3\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.out.mpeg\fR is a tool for combining a series of GRASS raster
maps into a single MPEG\-1
(Motion
Pictures Experts Group) format file.  MPEG\-1 is a
\(dqlossy\(dq video compression format, so the quality of each
resulting frame of the animation will be much diminished from the
original raster image.  The resulting output file may then be viewed
using your favorite mpeg\-format viewing program.  MPEG\-2 and MPEG\-4
provide much better quality animations.
.PP
The user may define up to four \(dqviews\(dq, or sub\-windows,
to animate simultaneously.  e.g., View 1 could be rainfall, View 2
flooded areas, View 3 damage to bridges or levees, View 4 other
economic damage, all animated as a time series. A black border 2
pixels wide is drawn around each view. There is an arbitrary limit of
400 files per view (400 animation frames).  Temporary files are
created in the conversion process, so lack of adequate tmp space could
also limit the number of frames you are able to convert.
.PP
The environment variable GMPEG_SIZE is checked for a value to use
as the dimension, in pixels, of the longest dimension of the animation
image.  If GMPEG_SIZE is not set, the animation size defaults to the
rows & columns in the current GRASS region, scaling if necessary
to a default minimum size of 200 and maximum of 500.  These size
defaults are overridden when using the \fB\-c\fR flag (see below). The
resolution of the current GRASS region is maintained, independent of
image size.  Playback programs have to decode the compressed data
\(dqon\-the\-fly\(dq, therefore smaller dimensioned animations will provide
higher frame rates and smoother animations.
.PP
UNIX \- style wild cards may be used with the command line version
in place of a raster map name, but wild cards must be quoted.
.PP
A quality value of \fBquality=1\fR will yield higher quality images,
but with less compression (larger MPEG file size). Compression ratios
will vary depending on the number of frames in the animation, but an
MPEG produced using \fBquality=5\fR will usually be about 60% the size
of the MPEG produced using \fBquality=1\fR.
.SH Example
.br
.nf
\fC
r.out.mpeg view1=\(dqrain[1\-9]\(dq,\(dqrain1[0\-2]\(dq view2=\(dqtemp*\(dq
\fR
.fi
.PP
If the number of files differs for each view, the view with the
fewest files will determine the number of frames in the animation.
.PP
With \fB\-c\fR flag the module converts \(dqon the fly\(dq, uses less
disk space by using \fIr.out.ppm\fR
with stdout option to convert frames as needed instead of converting
all frames to ppm before encoding.  Only use when encoding a single
view.  Use of this option also overrides any size defaults, using
the \fBCURRENTLY DEFINED GRASS REGION for the output size\fR. So be
careful to set region to a reasonable size prior to encoding.
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
MPEG images must be 16\-pixel aligned for successful compression, so if
the rows & columns of the calculated image size (scaled, with
borders added) are not evenly divisible by 16, a few rows/columns will
be cut off the bottom & right sides of the image. The MPEG format
is optimized to recognize image MOTION, so abrupt changes from one
frame to another will cause a \(dqnoisy\(dq encoding.
.SH NOTES
This program requires the program \fImpeg_encode\fR
(aka \fIppmtompeg\fR):
.PP
MPEG\-1 Video Software Encoder
.br
(Version 1.3; March 14, 1994)
.PP
Lawrence A. Rowe, Kevin Gong, Ketan Patel, and Dan Wallach Computer Science
Division\-EECS, Univ. of Calif. at Berkeley
.PP
Available from Berkeley:
http://biowiki.org/BerkeleyMpegEncoder
.br
or as part of the netpbm package (\fIppmtompeg\fR):
http://netpbm.sourceforge.net
.PP
Use of the \fB\-c\fR flag requires
the \fIr.out.ppm\fR GRASS module with
the \fBstdout\fR option.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIr.out.ppm\fR
.br
.SH AUTHOR
Bill Brown,
U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratories
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
r.out.mpeg source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
