.TH r.out.vtk 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.out.vtk\fR\fR  \- Converts raster maps into the VTK\-ASCII format.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, export, output, VTK
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.out.vtk\fR
.br
\fBr.out.vtk \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.out.vtk\fR [\-\fBpstvoc\fR]  [\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR,...]]   [\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBelevation\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBnull\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBz\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBrgbmaps\fR=\fIstring\fR[,\fIstring\fR,...]]   [\fBvectormaps\fR=\fIstring\fR[,\fIstring\fR,...]]   [\fBzscale\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBprecision\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-p\fR" 4m
.br
Create VTK point data instead of VTK cell data (if no elevation map is given)
.IP "\fB\-s\fR" 4m
.br
Use structured grid for elevation (not recommended)
.IP "\fB\-t\fR" 4m
.br
Use polydata\-trianglestrips for elevation grid creation
.IP "\fB\-v\fR" 4m
.br
Use polydata\-vertices for elevation grid creation (to use with vtkDelauny2D)
.IP "\fB\-o\fR" 4m
.br
Scale factor affects the origin (if no elevation map is given)
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 4m
.br
Correct the coordinates to match the VTK\-OpenGL precision
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname[,\fIname\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Raster map(s) to be converted to VTK\-ASCII data format
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for VTK\-ASCII output file
.IP "\fBelevation\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input elevation raster map
.IP "\fBnull\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Value to represent no data cell
.br
Default: \fI\-99999.99\fR
.IP "\fBz\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Constant elevation (if no elevation map is specified)
.br
Default: \fI0.0\fR
.IP "\fBrgbmaps\fR=\fIstring[,\fIstring\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Three (r,g,b) raster maps to create RGB values [redmap,greenmap,bluemap]
.IP "\fBvectormaps\fR=\fIstring[,\fIstring\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Three (x,y,z) raster maps to create vector values [xmap,ymap,zmap]
.IP "\fBzscale\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Scale factor for elevation
.br
Default: \fI1.0\fR
.IP "\fBprecision\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Number of significant digits (floating point only)
.br
Options: \fI0\-20\fR
.br
Default: \fI12\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Outputs \fIraster\fR maps in \fIVTK\-ASCII\fR format. \fIMap\(cqs\fR are
valid raster map\(cqs in the current mapset.  \fIoutput\fR is the name of
an VTK\-ASCII file which will be written in the current working directory.
If \fIoutput\fR is not specified then \fBstdout\fR is used.
The module is sensitive to region settings (set with g.region).
.PP
Elevation, scaling, point/celldata, vector and RGB Data are supported.
If the map is in LL projection, the elevation values will automatically scaled to
degrees. It is supposed that the elevation values are provided in meters.
If the elevation values are in a different unit than meters, use
the scale parameter to convert the units.
.PP
If no elevation map is given, the user can set the height of the map by one value.
Point or cell data are available. Also scaling is supported for this elevation value.
The elevation value must be provided in meters.
.PP
The RGB input requires three raster maps: red, green, blue  \- in this order.
The maps must have values between 0 and 255, otherwise you will get lots of warnings
and the values are set to 0.
More than one RGB dataset (3 maps) is not supported.
.PP
The vector input requires three raster maps: x, y, z \-\- defining the vector coordinates  \- in this order.
More than one vector dataset (3 maps) is not supported.
.SH NOTES
This filter generates:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fIstructured points\fR with \fIcelldata\fR or \fIpointdata\fR if no elevationfile is given
.IP \(bu 4n
\fIstructured grid\fR (not recommendet) with \fIpointdata\fR if an elevationfile is given
.IP \(bu 4n
\fIpolydataset\fR with \fIpointdata\fR if an elevationfile is given (default)
.RE
and puts this in a simple VTK\-ASCII file. Nor XML or
binary output are supported. It is possible to choose more then one raster map
to be written to the VTK\-ASCII file. Each cell\-/pointdata is named like the raster map it represents.
You can visualize this file with the
\fIVTK Toolkit\fR,
\fIParaview\fR and
\fIMayaVi\fR which are based on VTK.
If you have a raster map with partly no data, use the threshold filter in paraview to
visualize the valid data. Just filter all data which is greater/lesser than the
chosen null value in the VTK\-ASCII file.
.br
If elevation map is chosen, a polygonal grid is created with \fIquads\fR,
but the user can choose also \fItriangle strips\fR or \fIvertices\fR.
These dataformats a documented at \fIVTK Toolkit\fR.
.PP
If the \(dq\-c\(dq flag is used and the data should be visualised together with other data exported via *.out.vtk
modules, be sure the \(dq\-c\(dq flag was also set in these modules.
But this will only work with data from the SAME location
(The reference point for the coordinates transformation is based on the center point of the default region).
.SS Difference between point\- and celldata
r.out.vtk can export raster cells with different representations.
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fIpointdata\fR \-\- the cells/values are represented by the center of the cell.
Instead of cells, points are created. Each point can hold different values,
but the user can only visualize one value at a time. These points can
be connected in different ways.
.IP \(bu 4n
\fIcelldata\fR \-\- is only provided if no elevation map is given.
The cells are created with the same hight and width as in GRASS. Each cell
can hold different values, but the user can only visualize one value at a time.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLE
.SS Simple Spearfish example
.br
.nf
\fC
# set region
g.region n=4926970 s=4914857 w=591583 e=607793 res=50 \-p
# export the data
r.out.vtk input=elevation.10m,slope,aspect elevation=elevation.10m output=/tmp/out.vtk
# visualize in Paraview or other VTK viewer:
paraview \-\-data=/tmp/out.vtk
\fR
.fi
.SS Spearfish example with RGB data
.br
.nf
\fC
#set the region
g.region n=4926990 s=4914840 w=591570 e=607800 res=30 \-p
# using r.in.wms to create RGB data to get a satellite coverage
r.in.wms layers=global_mosaic mapserver=http://wms.jpl.nasa.gov/wms.cgi \(rs
         output=wms_global_mosaic
# export the data to VTK
r.out.vtk rgbmaps=wms_global_mosaic.red,wms_global_mosaic.green,wms_global_mosaic.blue \(rs
          elevation=elevation.10m output=/tmp/out.vtk
# visualize in Paraview or other VTK viewer:
paraview \-\-data=/tmp/out.vtk
\fR
.fi
\fBParaview RGB visualization notes\fR
.br
To achieve proper RGB overlay:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
In Paraview, click \(dqApply\(dq
.IP \(bu 4n
Select the \(dqDisplay\(dq tab and choose \(dqColor by\(dq to switch from input scalars to rgb scalars
.IP \(bu 4n
Disable the \(dqMap Scalars\(dq check button in the display tab to avoid the use of a lookup table
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r3.out.vtk,
r.out.ascii,
g.region
\fR
.br
GRASS and Paraview Wiki page
.SH AUTHOR
Soeren Gebbert
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r.out.vtk source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
