.TH r.out.xyz 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.out.xyz.py\fR\fR  \- Exports a raster map to a text file as x,y,z values based on cell centers.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, export, output, ASCII, conversion
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.out.xyz.py\fR
.br
\fBr.out.xyz.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.out.xyz.py\fR [\-\fBi\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR,...]  [\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBseparator\fR=\fIcharacter\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-i\fR" 4m
.br
Include no data values
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname[,\fIname\fR,...]\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map(s)
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output file (if omitted or \(dq\-\(dq output to stdout)
.IP "\fBseparator\fR=\fIcharacter\fR" 4m
.br
Field separator
.br
Special characters: pipe, comma, space, tab, newline
.br
Default: \fIpipe\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIr.out.xyz\fR module exports a raster map as a list of x,y,z
values into an ASCII text file.
.SH NOTES
This module will by default not export x,y coordinates for raster cells
containing a NULL value. This includes cells masked by a raster MASK.
Using the flag \fB\-i\fR also these raster cells will be included in the
exported data.
.PP
This module, as all GRASS raster modules, will export cells based on the
current region settings. See the \fIg.region\fR module for details.
.PP
The \fIr.out.ascii\fR module should be used to export an array (of
size row x column) containing z values.
.PP
\fIr.out.xyz\fR can combine several input raster maps, which can be
convenient when it comes to e.g. produce ASCII point cloud files.
.PP
\fIr.out.xyz\fR is simply a front\-end to \(dqr.stats \-1g[n]\(dq.
.SH EXAMPLES
In this example, a LiDAR elevation map in the
North Carolina sample dataset location is exported to CSV format.
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=elev_lid792_1m \-p
r.out.xyz input=elev_lid792_1m output=elev_lid792_1m.csv separator=\(dq,\(dq
\fR
.fi
.PP
In this example, elevation data from the North Carolina dataset are
exported along with R,G,B triplet of the related orthophoto into a
combined file (requires the import of the supplementary high\-resolution
color orthophoto, here called \(dqortho2010_t792\(dq):
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=elev_lid792_1m res=1 \-a \-p
r.out.xyz input=elev_lid792_1m,ortho2010_t792.red,ortho2010_t792.green,ortho2010_t792.blue \(rs
        separator=space output=pointcloud.asc
# validate: X Y Z R G B
head \-n 3 pointcloud.asc
638300.5 220749.5 126.338218689 78 84 71
638301.5 220749.5 126.3381958008 93 101 86
638302.5 220749.5 126.3414840698 68 77 59
\fR
.fi
.SH TODO
Implement this script as a \fIr.out.ascii\fR option?
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
g.region,
r.mask
r.out.ascii,
r.stats
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
M. Hamish Bowman
.br
\fIDept. Marine Science
.br
Otago University, New Zealand\fR
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
r.out.xyz source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
