.TH r.out.bin 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.out.bin\fR\fR  \- Exports a GRASS raster to a binary array.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, export, output
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.out.bin\fR
.br
\fBr.out.bin \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.out.bin\fR [\-\fBifhbs\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIstring\fR  [\fBoutput\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBnull\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBbytes\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBorder\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-i\fR" 4m
.br
Generate integer output
.IP "\fB\-f\fR" 4m
.br
Generate floating\-point output
.IP "\fB\-h\fR" 4m
.br
Export array with GMT compatible header
.IP "\fB\-b\fR" 4m
.br
Generate BIL world and header files
.IP "\fB\-s\fR" 4m
.br
Byte swap output
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output binary map (use output=\- for stdout)
.IP "\fBnull\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Value to write out for null
.br
Default: \fI0\fR
.IP "\fBbytes\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Number of bytes per cell
.br
Options: \fI1, 2, 4, 8\fR
.IP "\fBorder\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Output byte order
.br
Options: \fIbig, little, native, swap\fR
.br
Default: \fInative\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIr.out.bin\fR program exports a GRASS raster map to a binary array
file. Optionally, output can be sent to standard output (stdout) for direct
input (pipe) into other applications. Data is exported according to the
original GRASS raster type (e.g. float). If the \(dq\-i\(dq flag is specified, an
integer array is output. The region parameters are printed to stderr.
.SH NOTES
With the \-h flag, data can be directly used by
GMT as Grid Format 1 (float) or
2 (short). For example:
.br
.nf
\fC
r.out.bin \-h input=grass.raster output=new.grd
grdinfo new.grd=1 (if float)
\fR
.fi
.PP
Exported data can be piped directly into the GMT program xyz2grd.
.br
.nf
\fC
r.out.bin input=grass.raster output=\- | xyz2grd \-R....  \-ZTLf \-
\fR
.fi
The example uses the GMT program xyz2grd with the \-ZTLf flag indicating that
a float array was output.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.in.bin,
r.in.ascii,
r.in.gdal,
r.out.ascii
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
This program is derived from \fIr.out.ascii\fR
with a few modifications.
.br
Author: Bob Covill
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r.out.bin source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
