.TH r.out.gdal 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.out.gdal\fR\fR  \- Exports GRASS raster maps into GDAL supported formats.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, export, output
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.out.gdal\fR
.br
\fBr.out.gdal \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.out.gdal\fR [\-\fBlcmtf\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBformat\fR=\fIstring\fR  [\fBtype\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBcreateopt\fR=\fIstring\fR[,\fIstring\fR,...]]   [\fBmetaopt\fR=\fIstring\fR[,\fIstring\fR,...]]   [\fBnodata\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBoverviews\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-l\fR" 4m
.br
List supported output formats
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 4m
.br
Do not write GDAL standard colortable
.br
Only applicable to Byte or UInt16 data types
.IP "\fB\-m\fR" 4m
.br
Do not write non\-standard metadata
.br
Enhances compatibility with other GIS software
.IP "\fB\-t\fR" 4m
.br
Write raster attribute table
.br
Some export formats may not be supported
.IP "\fB\-f\fR" 4m
.br
Force raster export despite any warnings of data loss
.br
Overrides nodata safety check
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of raster map (or group) to export
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster file
.IP "\fBformat\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Raster data format to write (case sensitive, see also \-l flag)
.br
Options: \fIVRT, GTiff, COG, NITF, HFA, ELAS, AAIGrid, DTED, PNG, JPEG, MEM, GIF, XPM, BMP, PCIDSK, PCRaster, ILWIS, SGI, SRTMHGT, Leveller, Terragen, GMT, netCDF, HDF4Image, ISIS3, ISIS2, PDS4, VICAR, ERS, JP2OpenJPEG, FIT, GRIB, RMF, WMS, RST, INGR, GSAG, GSBG, GS7BG, R, KMLSUPEROVERLAY, WEBP, PDF, Rasterlite, MBTiles, CALS, WMTS, MRF, PNM, PAux, MFF, MFF2, BT, LAN, IDA, LCP, GTX, NTv2, CTable2, KRO, ROI_PAC, RRASTER, BYN, ARG, USGSDEM, NWT_GRD, ADRG, BLX, PostGISRaster, SAGA, XYZ, HF2, ZMap, SIGDEM, DB2ODBC, GPKG, NGW, ENVI, EHdr, ISCE\fR
.br
Default: \fIGTiff\fR
.IP "\fBtype\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Data type
.br
Options: \fIByte, Int16, UInt16, Int32, UInt32, Float32, Float64, CInt16, CInt32, CFloat32, CFloat64\fR
.IP "\fBcreateopt\fR=\fIstring[,\fIstring\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Creation option(s) to pass to the output format driver
.br
In the form of \(dqNAME=VALUE\(dq, separate multiple entries with a comma
.IP "\fBmetaopt\fR=\fIstring[,\fIstring\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Metadata key(s) and value(s) to include
.br
In the form of \(dqMETA\-TAG=VALUE\(dq, separate multiple entries with a comma. Not supported by all output format drivers.
.IP "\fBnodata\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Assign a specified nodata value to output bands
.br
If given, the nodata value is always written to metadata even if there are no NULL cells in the input band (enhances output compatibility).
.IP "\fBoverviews\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Number of overviews to create for the output dataset
.br
Options: \fI0\-5\fR
.br
Default: \fI0\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.out.gdal\fR allows a user to export a GRASS raster map layer
into any GDAL supported raster map format. If a GRASS raster map is
exported for a particular application, the application\(cqs native format
would be preferable. GeoTIFF is supported by a wide range of
applications (see also \fBNOTES\fR on GeoTIFF below).
.PP
To specify multiple creation options use a comma separated list
(\fIcreateopt=\(dqTFW=YES,COMPRESS=DEFLATE\(dq\fR).
.PP
For possible \fIcreateopt\fR and \fImetaopt\fR parameters please
consult the individual
supported formats
pages on the GDAL website.
The \fIcreateopt\fR parameter may be used to create TFW or World files
(\(dqTFW=YES\(dq,\(dqWORLDFILE=ON\(dq).
.PP
\fIr.out.gdal\fR also supports the export of multiband rasters as
a group, when the imagery group\(cqs name is entered as input.
(created imagery groups with the \fIi.group\fR
module)
.PP
As with most GRASS raster modules, the current region extents and region
resolution are used, and a MASK is respected if present.
Use \fIg.region\fR\(cqs \(dqalign=\(dq, or \(dqraster=\(dq
options if you need to realign the region settings to match the original
map\(cqs before export.
.SH SUPPORTED RASTER FORMATS
The set of supported
raster formats written by \fIr.out.gdal\fR depends on the local
GDAL installation, printed with the \fI\-l\fR flag. Available may be
(incomplete list):
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
  AAIGrid: Arc/Info ASCII Grid
  BMP: MS Windows Device Independent Bitmap
  BSB: Maptech BSB Nautical Charts
  DTED: DTED Elevation Raster
  ELAS: ELAS
  ENVI: ENVI .hdr Labelled
  FIT: FIT Image
  GIF: Graphics Interchange Format (.gif)
  GTiff: GeoTIFF
  HDF4Image: HDF4 Dataset
  HFA: Erdas Imagine Images (.img)
  JPEG2000: JPEG\-2000 part 1 (ISO/IEC 15444\-1)
  JPEG: JPEG JFIF
  MEM: In Memory Raster
  MFF2: Atlantis MFF2 (HKV) Raster
  MFF: Atlantis MFF Raster
  NITF: National Imagery Transmission Format
  PAux: PCI .aux Labelled
  PCIDSK: PCIDSK Database File
  PNG: Portable Network Graphics
  PNM: Portable Pixmap Format (netpbm)
  VRT: Virtual Raster
  XPM: X11 PixMap Format
\fR
.fi
.SH NOTES
.PP
Out of the GDAL data types, the closest match for GRASS CELL, FCELL and
DCELL rasters are respectively Int32, Float32 and Float64. These are not
exact equivalents, but they will preserve the maximum possible data range
and number of decimal places for each respective GRASS raster data type.
Please keep in mind that not all CELL rasters will require Int32 \- e.g.,
0\-255 CELL raster are covered by the Byte \fItype\fR as well.
Moreover, some GDAL\-supported formats do not support all the data types
possible in GDAL and GRASS. Use \fIr.info\fR to
check the data type and range for your GRASS raster, refer to specific
format documentation (on the GDAL website),
format vendor\(cqs documentation, and e.g. the Wikipedia article
\fI
Typical boundaries of primitive integral types\fR
for details.
.SS Ranges of GDAL data types
.br
.nf
\fC
  GDAL data type	       minimum  	maximum
  Byte  			     0  	    255
  UInt16			     0  	 65,535
  Int16, CInt16 	       \-32,768  	 32,767
  UInt32			     0    4,294,967,295
  Int32, CInt32 	\-2,147,483,648    2,147,483,647
  Float32, CFloat32	       \-3.4E38  	 3.4E38
  Float64, CFloat64	     \-1.79E308         1.79E308
\fR
.fi
.PP
If there is a need to keep file sizes small, use the simplest data type
covering the data range of the raster(s) to be exported, e.g., if suitable
use Byte rather than UInt16; use Int16 rather than Int32; or use Float32
rather than Float64. In addition, the COMPRESS \fBcreateopt\fR used can
have a very large impact on the size of the output file.
.PP
Some software may not recognize all of the compression methods
available for a given file format, and certain compression methods may
only be supported for certain data types (depends on vendor and version).
.PP
If the export settings are set such that data loss would occur in the output
file (i.e, due to the particular choice of data type and/or file type), the
normal behaviour of \fIr.out.gdal\fR in this case would be to issue an error
message describing the problem and exit without exporting. The \fB\-f\fR flag
allows raster export even if some of the data loss tests are not passed, and
warnings are issued instead of errors.
.PP
\fIr.out.gdal\fR exports may appear all black or gray on initial
display in other GIS software. This is not a bug of \fIr.out.gdal\fR,
but often caused by the default color table assigned by that software.
The default color table may be grayscale covering the whole range of
possible values which is very large for e.g. Int32 or Float32. E.g.
stretching the color table to actual min/max would help (sometimes under
symbology).
.SS Adding overviews to speed up map display in other software
Adding overviews with gdaladdo
after exporting can speed up display. The overviews are created internally
within the exported file. The amount of levels (power\-of\-two factors) are
controlled with the \fBoverviews\fR parameter. The higher the overview level
defined by the user the more lower resolution internal overviews are added
Note that other software might create their own overviews, ignoring existing
overviews.
.SS GeoTIFF caveats
GeoTIFF exports can only be displayed by standard image viewers
if the GDAL data type was set to Byte and the GeoTIFF contains either
one or three bands. All other data types and numbers of bands can be
properly read with GIS software only. Although GeoTIFF files usually
have a .tif extension, these files are not necessarily images but
first of all spatial raster datasets, e.g. land cover or elevation.
.PP
When writing out multi\-band GeoTIFF images for users of ESRI software or
ImageMagick, the interleaving mode should be set to \(dqpixel\(dq using
\fIcreateopt=\(dqINTERLEAVE=PIXEL\(dq\fR. BAND interleaving is slightly more
efficient, but not supported by some applications.
This issue only arises when writing out multi\-band imagery groups.
.PP
Classic TIFF format supports only files with up to 4GB. Files that
exceed this limit (in compressed or uncompressed form) need to be
exported with \fIcreateopt=\(dqBIGTIFF=YES\(dq\fR. BIGTIFF is available if
GDAL is built with libtiff &= 4.0.
.SS Improving GeoTIFF compatibility
To create a GeoTIFF that is highly compatible with various other GIS
software packages, it is recommended to keep the GeoTIFF file as simple
as possible. You will have to experiment with which options your
software is compatible with, as this varies widely between vendors and
versions. Long term, the less metadata you have to remove the more
self\-documenting (and useful) the dataset will be.
.PP
Here are some things to try:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
Create a World file with createopt=\(dqTFW=YES\(dq.
.IP \(bu 4n
Do not use GeoTIFF internal compression. Other GIS software often
supports only a subset of the available compression methods with the
supported methods differing between GIS software packages. Unfortunately
this means the output image can be rather huge, but the file can be
compressed with software like zip, gnuzip, or bzip2.
.IP \(bu 4n
Skip exporting the color table. Color tables are not always properly
rendered, particularly for type UInt16, and the GeoTIFF file can appear
completely black. If you are lucky the problematic software package has
a method to reset the color table and assign a new color table
(sometimes called symbology).
.IP \(bu 4n
Keep metadata simple with createopt=\(dqPROFILE=GeoTIFF\(dq or
createopt=\(dqPROFILE=BASELINE\(dq. With BASELINE no GDAL or GeoTIFF
tags will be written and a World file is required (\fIcreateopt=\(dqTFW=YES\(dq\fR).
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Export the integer raster basin_50K map to GeoTIFF format
See also GeoTIFF format description (GDAL):
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=basin_50K \-p
r.out.gdal input=basin_50K output=basin_50K.tif
\fR
.fi
.SS Export the integer raster landclass96 map to Cloud Optimized GeoTIFF format
See also Cloud Optimized GeoTIFF (COG) format description (GDAL):
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region \-p raster=landclass96
r.out.gdal \-fmt input=landclass96 output=landclass96.tif format=COG overviews=4
\fR
.fi
.SS Export a DCELL raster map in GeoTIFF format suitable for ESRI software
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=elevation \-p
r.out.gdal in=elevation output=elevation.tif createopt=\(dqPROFILE=GeoTIFF,TFW=YES\(dq
\fR
.fi
.SS Export a raster map in \(dqDeflate\(dq compressed GeoTIFF format
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=elevation \-p
r.out.gdal in=elevation output=elevation.tif createopt=\(dqCOMPRESS=DEFLATE\(dq
\fR
.fi
.SS Export a large raster map in LZW compressed (Big) GeoTIFF format
.br
.nf
\fC
# integer map export
g.region raster=zipcodes \-p
# Using PREDICTOR 2 for integer maps can further reduce file size
r.out.gdal in=zipcodes output=zipcodes.tif createopt=\(dqCOMPRESS=LZW,PREDICTOR=2,BIGTIFF=YES\(dq
# floating point map export
g.region raster=elevation \-p
# Using PREDICTOR 3 for floating point data can further reduce file size
r.out.gdal in=elevation output=elevation.tif createopt=\(dqCOMPRESS=LZW,PREDICTOR=3,BIGTIFF=YES\(dq
\fR
.fi
.SS Export a raster map with internal overview in \(dqDeflate\(dq compressed GeoTIFF format
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=elevation \-p
# overviews=5 corresponds to \(cqgdaladdo ... 2 4 8 16 32\(cq
r.out.gdal in=elevation output=elevation.tif createopt=\(dqCOMPRESS=DEFLATE\(dq overviews=5
\fR
.fi
.SS Export R,G,B imagery bands in GeoTIFF format suitable for ESRI software
.br
.nf
\fC
i.group group=nc_landsat_rgb input=lsat7_2002_30,lsat7_2002_20,lsat7_2002_10
g.region raster=lsat7_2002_30 \-p
r.out.gdal in=nc_landsat_rgb output=nc_landsat_rgb.tif type=Byte \(rs
  createopt=\(dqPROFILE=GeoTIFF,INTERLEAVE=PIXEL,TFW=YES\(dq
\fR
.fi
.SS Export group of image maps as multi\-band file
.br
.nf
\fC
g.list group
i.group group=tm7 subgroup=tm7 input=tm7_10,tm7_20,tm7_30,tm7_40,tm7_50,tm7_60,tm7_70
i.group \-l tm7
g.region raster=tm7_10 \-p
r.out.gdal tm7 output=lsat_multiband.tif
gdalinfo lsat_multiband.tif
\fR
.fi
.SS Export RGB with alpha channel that encodes NULL cells
When exporting exporting RGB data rather than GIS data for Web applications
or generally the scope of visualization, the alpha channel is of use. Here
the export type is commonly the Byte data type.
.PP
When exporting data with \fIr.out.gdal\fR, assigning a \fBnodata\fR
value (specific parameter of the module) means that any band values
equal to this nodata value will be interpreted as nodata. Using an additional
alpha channel means that all pixels with an alpha value of 0 are
transparent. The alpha channel thus represents per\-pixel encoding of
nodata, just like the GRASS MASK (null file). That means when using an alpha
channel, you do not need to \(dqfree up\(dq any particular value, but you can
use any value you like to replace NULL cells, as long as the value can be
represented by the Byte data type. It does not matter if that value is
already present in any of the input bands.
.PP
Hence for \(dqvisual\-only\(dq RGB data export it is needed to create an additional
alpha channel that encodes all NULL cells and in the RGB bands to be exported
replace NULL cells with some value in the range 0\-255. For example:
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
# for simplicity variables are used
RMAP=\(dqlsat7_2000_30\(dq
GMAP=\(dqlsat7_2000_20\(dq
BMAP=\(dqlsat7_2000_10\(dq
OUTNAME=\(dqlsat7_2000_RGBA.tif\(dq
# extract alpha
r.mapcalc \(dqout_a = if(isnull($RMAP) || isnull($GMAP) || isnull($BMAP), 0, 255)\(dq
# replace NULL cells with a valid value, extract colors
# exporting 8 bit RGB data, not GIS data, therefore the \(ga#\(ga operator:
r.mapcalc \(dqout_r = if(isnull($RMAP), 0, #$RMAP)\(dq
r.mapcalc \(dqout_g = if(isnull($GMAP), 0, #$GMAP)\(dq
r.mapcalc \(dqout_b = if(isnull($BMAP), 0, #$BMAP)\(dq
# create group for export
i.group group=out_rgba input=out_r,out_g,out_b,out_a
# remove any MASK because this works only if there are
# no NULL cells in the bands to be exported
r.mask \-r
# export the group:
# add PROFILE=BASELINE to createopt to produce a standard TIFF file
# without any GTiff extensions
r.out.gdal input=out_rgba output=$OUTNAME \-cm createopt=\(dqPHOTOMETRIC=RGB,ALPHA=YES\(dq
gdalinfo $OUTNAME
\fR
.fi
The resulting GeoTIFF file can be used e.g. for Web server applications.
.SS Export the floating point raster elevation map to ERDAS/IMG format
See also Erdas Imagine .img format description (GDAL):
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=elevation \-p
r.out.gdal input=elevation output=elelevation.img format=HFA type=Float32
\fR
.fi
.SH GDAL RELATED ERROR MESSAGES
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\(dqERROR 6: SetColorInterpretation() not supported for this dataset.\(dq:
This \fImay\fR indicate that the color table was not written properly.
But usually it will be correct and the message can be ignored.
.IP \(bu 4n
\(dqERROR 6: SetNoDataValue() not supported for this dataset.\(dq:
The selected output format does not support \(dqno data\(dq. It is recommended
to use a different output format if your data contains NULLs.
.IP \(bu 4n
\(dqWarning 1: Lost metadata writing to GeoTIFF ... too large to fit in
tag.\(dq: The color table metadata may be too large. It is recommended to
simplify or not write the color table, or use a different output format or
the flags \fB\-c\fR and \fB\-m\fR.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
GDAL supported raster formats and
GDAL supported vector formats
.PP
\fI
r.out.ascii,
r.out.bin,
r.out.mat,
r.out.png,
r.out.ppm,
r.pack
\fR
.SH REFERENCES
GDAL Pages: https://gdal.org
.SH AUTHORS
Vytautas Vebra (oliver4grass at gmail.com)
.br
Markus Metz (improved nodata logic)
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r.out.gdal source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
