.TH r.proj 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.proj\fR\fR  \- Re\-projects a raster map from given location to the current location.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, projection, transformation, import
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.proj\fR
.br
\fBr.proj \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.proj\fR [\-\fBlnpg\fR] \fBlocation\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBmapset\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBdbase\fR=\fIpath\fR]   [\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBmethod\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBmemory\fR=\fImemory in MB\fR]   [\fBresolution\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBpipeline\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-l\fR" 4m
.br
List raster maps in input mapset and exit
.IP "\fB\-n\fR" 4m
.br
Do not perform region cropping optimization
.IP "\fB\-p\fR" 4m
.br
Print input map\(cqs bounds in the current projection and exit
.IP "\fB\-g\fR" 4m
.br
Print input map\(cqs bounds in the current projection and exit (shell style)
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBlocation\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Location containing input raster map
.br
Location name (not location path)
.IP "\fBmapset\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Mapset containing input raster map
.br
Default: name of current mapset
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map to re\-project
.IP "\fBdbase\fR=\fIpath\fR" 4m
.br
Path to GRASS database of input location
.br
Default: path to the current GRASS GIS database
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map (default: same as \(cqinput\(cq)
.IP "\fBmethod\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Interpolation method to use
.br
Options: \fInearest, bilinear, bicubic, lanczos, bilinear_f, bicubic_f, lanczos_f\fR
.br
Default: \fInearest\fR
.br
\fBnearest\fR: nearest neighbor
.br
\fBbilinear\fR: bilinear interpolation
.br
\fBbicubic\fR: bicubic interpolation
.br
\fBlanczos\fR: lanczos filter
.br
\fBbilinear_f\fR: bilinear interpolation with fallback
.br
\fBbicubic_f\fR: bicubic interpolation with fallback
.br
\fBlanczos_f\fR: lanczos filter with fallback
.IP "\fBmemory\fR=\fImemory in MB\fR" 4m
.br
Maximum memory to be used (in MB)
.br
Cache size for raster rows
.br
Default: \fI300\fR
.IP "\fBresolution\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Resolution of output raster map
.IP "\fBpipeline\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
PROJ pipeline for coordinate transformation
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.proj\fR projects a raster map in a specified mapset of a
specified location from the projection of the input location to a raster map
in the current location. The projection information is taken from the
current PROJ_INFO files, as set and viewed with
\fIg.proj\fR.
.SS Introduction
.SS Map projections
Map projections are a method of representing information from a curved
surface (usually a spheroid) in two dimensions, typically to allow
indexing through cartesian coordinates.  There are a wide variety of
projections, with common ones divided into a number of classes,
including cylindrical and pseudo\-cylindrical, conic and pseudo\-conic,
and azimuthal methods, each of which may be conformal, equal\-area, or
neither.
.PP
The particular projection chosen depends on the purpose of the
project, and the size, shape and location of the area of interest.
For example, normal cylindrical projections are good for maps which
are of greater extent east\-west than north\-south and in equatorial
regions, while conic projections are better in mid\-latitudes;
transverse cylindrical projections are used for maps which are of
greater extent north\-south than east\-west; azimuthal projections are
used for polar regions.  Oblique versions of any of these may also be
used.  Conformal projections preserve angular relationships, and
better preserve arc\-length, while equal\-area projections are more
appropriate for statistical studies and work in which the amount of
material is important.
.PP
Projections are defined by precise mathematical relations, so the
method of projecting coordinates from a geographic reference frame
(latitude\-longitude) into a projected cartesian reference frame (eg
metres) is governed by these equations.  Inverse projections can also
be achieved.  The public\-domain Unix software package \fIPROJ\fR
[1] has been designed to perform these transformations, and the user\(cqs
manual contains a detailed description of over 100 useful projections.
This also includes a programmers library of the projection methods to
support other software development.
.PP
Thus, converting a vector map \- in which objects are located with
arbitrary spatial precision \- from one projection into another is
usually accomplished by a simple two\-step process: first the location
of all the points in the map are converted from the source through an
inverse projection into latitude\-longitude, and then through a forward
projection into the target.  (Of course the procedure will be one\-step
if either the source or target is in geographic coordinates.)
.PP
Converting a raster map, or image, between different projections,
however, involves additional considerations.  A raster may be
considered to represent a sampling of a process at a regular, ordered
set of locations.  The set of locations that lie at the intersections
of a cartesian grid in one projection will not, in general, coincide
with the sample points in another projection.  Thus, the conversion of
raster maps involves an interpolation step in which the values of
points at intermediate locations relative to the source grid are
estimated.
.SS Projecting vector maps within the GRASS GIS
GIS data capture, import and transfer often requires a projection
step, since the source or client will frequently be in a different
projection to the working projection.
.PP
In some cases it is convenient to do the conversion outside the
package, prior to import or after export, using software such
as \fIPROJ\fR\(cqs \fIcs2cs\fR
[1]. This is an easy method for converting an ASCII file containing a list
of coordinate points, since there is no topology to be preserved and
\fIcs2cs\fR can be used to process simple lists using a one\-line command.
The \fIm.proj\fR module provides a handy front end to cs2cs.
.PP
Vector maps is generally more complex, as parts of the data stored in
the files will describe topology, and not just coordinates. In GRASS
GIS the
\fIv.proj\fR module is provided to reproject
vector maps, transferring topology and attributes as well as node coordinates.
This program uses the projection definition and parameters which are stored in
the PROJ_INFO and PROJ_UNITS files in the PERMANENT mapset directory for every
GRASS location.
.SS Design of r.proj
As discussed briefly above, the fundamental step in re\-projecting a
raster is resampling the source grid at locations corresponding to the
intersections of a grid in the target projection. The basic procedure
for accomplishing this, therefore, is as follows:
.PP
\fIr.proj\fR converts a map to a new geographic projection. It
reads a map from a different location, projects it and write it out to
the current location. The projected data is resampled with one of four
different methods: nearest neighbor, bilinear, bicubic interpolation or
lanczos.
.PP
The \fBmethod=nearest\fR method, which performs a nearest neighbor
assignment, is the fastest of the three resampling methods. It is
primarily used for categorical data such as a land use classification,
since it will not change the values of the data
cells. The \fBmethod=bilinear\fR method determines the new value of
the cell based on a weighted distance average of the 4 surrounding
cells in the input map. The \fBmethod=bicubic\fR method determines the
new value of the cell based on a weighted distance average of the 16
surrounding cells in the input map. The \fBmethod=lanzcos\fR method
determines the new value of the cell based on a weighted distance
average of the 25 surrounding cells in the input map. Compared to
bicubic, lanczos puts a higher weight on cells close to the center and a
lower weight on cells away from the center, resulting in slightly
better contrast.
.PP
The bilinear, bicubic and lanczos interpolation methods are most
appropriate for continuous data and cause some smoothing. The amount
of smoothing decreases from bilinear to bicubic to lanczos. These
options should not be used with categorical data, since the cell
values will be altered.
.PP
In the bilinear, bicubic and lanczos methods, if any of the surrounding
cells used to interpolate the new cell value are NULL, the resulting
cell will be NULL, even if the nearest cell is not NULL. This will
cause some thinning along NULL borders, such as the coasts of land
areas in a DEM. The \fBbilinear_f\fR, \fBbicubic_f\fR and \fBlanczos_f\fR
interpolation methods can be used if thinning along NULL edges is not desired.
These methods \(dqfall back\(dq to simpler interpolation methods
along NULL borders.  That is, from lanczos to bicubic to bilinear to
nearest.
.PP
If nearest neighbor assignment is used, the output map has the same
raster format as the input map. If any of the interpolations is used,
the output map is written as floating point.
.PP
Note that, following normal GRASS conventions, the coverage and
resolution of the resulting grid is set by the current region
settings, which may be adjusted
using \fIg.region\fR. The target raster
will be relatively unbiased for all cases if its grid has a similar
resolution to the source, so that the resampling/interpolation step is
only a local operation.  If the resolution is changed significantly,
then the behaviour of the generalisation or refinement will depend on
the model of the process being represented.  This will be very
different for categorical versus numerical data.  Note that three
methods for the local interpolation step are provided.
.PP
\fIr.proj\fR supports general datum transformations, making use of
the \fIPROJ\fR co\-ordinate system translation library.
.SH NOTES
If \fBoutput\fR is not specified it is set to be the same as input map
name.
.br
If \fBmapset\fR is not specified, its name is assumed to be the same
as the current mapset\(cqs name.
.br
If \fBdbase\fR is not specified it is assumed to be the current
database. The user only has to specify \fBdbase\fR if the source
location is stored in another separate GRASS database.
.PP
To avoid excessive time consumption when reprojecting a map the region
and resolution of the target location should be set appropriately
beforehand.
.PP
A simple way to do this is to check the projected bounds of the input
map in the current location\(cqs projection using the \fB\-p\fR
flag. The \fB\-g\fR flag reports the same thing, but in a form which
can be directly cut and pasted into
a \fIg.region\fR command. After setting
the region in that way you might check the cell resolution with
\(dq\fIg.region \-p\fR\(dq then snap it to a regular grid
with \fIg.region\fR\(cqs \fB\-a\fR
flag. E.g.
g.region \-a res=5 \-p. Note that this is just a rough guide.
.PP
A more involved, but more accurate, way to do this is to generate a
vector \(dqbox\(dq map of the region in the source location using
\fIv.in.region \-d\fR.
This \(dqbox\(dq map is then reprojected into the target location with
\fIv.proj\fR. Next the region in the
target location is set to the extent of the new vector map
with \fIg.region\fR along with the
desired raster resolution (\fIg.region \-m\fR can be used in
Latitude/Longitude locations to measure the geodetic length of a
pixel).
\fIr.proj\fR is then run for the raster map the user wants to
reproject.  In this case a little preparation goes a long way.
.PP
When reprojecting whole\-world maps the user should disable
map\-trimming with the \fB\-n\fR flag. Trimming is not useful here
because the module has the whole map in memory anyway. Besides that,
world \(dqedges\(dq are hard (or impossible) to find in projections other
than latitude\-longitude so results may be odd with trimming.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Inline method
With GRASS running in the destination location use the \fB\-g\fR flag
to show the input map\(cqs bounds once projected into the current working
projection, then use that to set the region bounds before performing
the reprojection:
.br
.nf
\fC
# calculate where output map will be
r.proj input=elevation location=ll_wgs84 mapset=user1 \-p
Source cols: 8162
Source rows: 12277
Local north: \-4265502.30382993
Local south: \-4473453.15255565
Local west: 14271663.19157564
Local east: 14409956.2693866
# same calculation, but in a form which can be cut and pasted into a g.region call
r.proj input=elevation location=ll_wgs84 mapset=user1 \-g
n=\-4265502.30382993 s=\-4473453.15255565 w=14271663.19157564 e=14409956.2693866 rows=12277 cols=8162
g.region n=\-4265502.30382993 s=\-4473453.15255565 \(rs
  w=14271663.19157564 e=14409956.2693866 rows=12277 cols=8162 \-p
projection: 99 (Mercator)
zone:       0
datum:      wgs84
ellipsoid:  wgs84
north:      \-4265502.30382993
south:      \-4473453.15255565
west:       14271663.19157564
east:       14409956.2693866
nsres:      16.93824621
ewres:      16.94352828
rows:       12277
cols:       8162
cells:      100204874
# round resolution to something cleaner
g.region res=17 \-a \-p
projection: 99 (Mercator)
zone:       0
datum:      wgs84
ellipsoid:  wgs84
north:      \-4265487
south:      \-4473465
west:       14271653
east:       14409965
nsres:      17
ewres:      17
rows:       12234
cols:       8136
cells:      99535824
# finally, perform the reprojection
r.proj input=elevation location=ll_wgs84 mapset=user1 memory=800
\fR
.fi
.SS v.in.region method
.br
.nf
\fC
# In the source location, use v.in.region to generate a bounding box around the
# region of interest:
v.in.region \-d output=bounds type=area
# Now switch to the target location and import the vector bounding box
# (you can run v.proj \-l to get a list of vector maps in the source location):
v.proj input=bounds location=source_location_name output=bounds_reprojected
# Set the region in the target location with that of the newly\-imported vector
# bounds map, and align the resolution to the desired cell resolution of the
# final, reprojected raster map:
g.region vector=bounds_reprojected res=5 \-a
# Now reproject the raster into the target location
r.proj input=elevation.dem output=elevation.dem.reproj \(rs
location=source_location_name mapset=PERMANENT res=5 method=bicubic
\fR
.fi
.SH REFERENCES
.IP
.IP \fB1\fR
Evenden, G.I. (1990) Cartographic
projection procedures for the UNIX environment \- a user\(cqs manual.
USGS Open\-File Report 90\-284 (OF90\-284.pdf)
See also there: Interim Report and 2nd Interim Report on Release 4, Evenden 1994).
.IP \fB2\fR
Richards, John A. (1993), Remote Sensing Digital Image Analysis,
Springer\-Verlag, Berlin, 2nd edition.
.PP
PROJ: Projection/datum support library
.PP
\fBFurther reading\fR
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
ASPRS Grids and Datum
.IP \(bu 4n
Projections Transform List (PROJ)
.IP \(bu 4n
Coordinate operations by PROJ (projections, conversions, transformations, pipeline operator)
.IP \(bu 4n
MapRef \-
The Collection of Map Projections and Reference Systems for Europe
.IP \(bu 4n
Information and Service System for European Coordinate Reference Systems \- CRS
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
g.region,
g.proj,
i.rectify,
m.proj,
r.support,
r.stats,
v.proj,
v.in.region
\fR
.PP
The \(cqgdalwarp\(cq and \(cqgdal_translate\(cq utilities are available from the
GDAL project.
.SH AUTHORS
Martin Schroeder, University of Heidelberg, Germany
.br
Man page text from S.J.D. Cox, AGCRC, CSIRO Exploration & Mining, Nedlands, WA
.br
Updated by Morten Hulden
.br
Datum transformation support and cleanup by Paul Kelly
.br
Support of PROJ5+ by Markus Metz, mundialis
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
r.proj source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
