.TH r.quant 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.quant\fR\fR  \- Produces the quantization file for a floating\-point map.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, statistics, quantization
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.quant\fR
.br
\fBr.quant \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.quant\fR [\-\fBtr\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIstring\fR[,\fIstring\fR,...]  [\fBrules\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBbasemap\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBfprange\fR=\fIdmin,dmax\fR]   [\fBrange\fR=\fImin,max\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-t\fR" 4m
.br
Truncate floating point data
.IP "\fB\-r\fR" 4m
.br
Round floating point data
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIstring[,\fIstring\fR,...]\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Raster map(s) to be quantized
.IP "\fBrules\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Path to rules file (\(dq\-\(dq to read from stdin)
.IP "\fBbasemap\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Base map to take quant rules from
.IP "\fBfprange\fR=\fIdmin,dmax\fR" 4m
.br
Floating point range: dmin,dmax
.IP "\fBrange\fR=\fImin,max\fR" 4m
.br
Integer range: min,max
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.quant\fR produces the quantization file for a floating\-point map.
.PP
The \fImap\fR parameter defines the map for which the rules are to be
created. If more than one map is specified, then this implies that the
floating\-point range is the miniumum and maximum of all the maps together,
unless either basemap=map or fprange=min,max is specified.
.SS  Quant rules
The quant rules have to be entered interactively.
.PP
If rules is specified, the input has the form:
.PP
value1:value2:cat1:[cat2]
.PP
where value1 and value2 are floating point values and cat1 cand cat2 are
integers. If cat2 is missing, it is taken to be equal to cat1. All values
can be \(dq*\(dq which means infinity.
.SH NOTE
It is an error for both basemap and fprange to be specified.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIr.support\fR,
\fIr.null\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Shapiro, Olga Waupotitsch,
U.S.Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
r.quant source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
