.TH r.region 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.region\fR\fR  \- Sets the boundary definitions for a raster map.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, metadata, geometry
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.region\fR
.br
\fBr.region \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.region\fR [\-\fBcda\fR] \fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBregion\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBraster\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBvector\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBn\fR=\fIvalue\fR]   [\fBs\fR=\fIvalue\fR]   [\fBe\fR=\fIvalue\fR]   [\fBw\fR=\fIvalue\fR]   [\fBalign\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 4m
.br
Set from current region
.IP "\fB\-d\fR" 4m
.br
Set from default region
.IP "\fB\-a\fR" 4m
.br
Auto\-adjustment for lat/lon
.br
Attempt to fix small precision errors in resolution and extents
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of raster map to change
.IP "\fBregion\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Set region from named region
.IP "\fBraster\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Set region to match this raster map
.IP "\fBvector\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of vector map
.br
Set region to match this vector map
.IP "\fBn\fR=\fIvalue\fR" 4m
.br
Value for the northern edge
.IP "\fBs\fR=\fIvalue\fR" 4m
.br
Value for the southern edge
.IP "\fBe\fR=\fIvalue\fR" 4m
.br
Value for the eastern edge
.IP "\fBw\fR=\fIvalue\fR" 4m
.br
Value for the western edge
.IP "\fBalign\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Raster map to align to
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIr.region\fR program allows the user to manage the boundaries
of a raster map. These boundaries can be set by the user directly
and/or set from a region definition file (stored under the
windows directory in the user\(cqs current mapset), a raster
or vector map, or a 3dview file.
.PP
The \fBalign\fR parameter sets the current resolution equal to
that of the named raster map, and align the boundaries to a row and column
edge in the named map.  Alignment only moves the existing boundaries outward
to the edges of the next nearest cell in the named raster map \-\- not to the
named map\(cqs edges.  To perform the latter function, use the
\fBraster=\fR\fIname\fR option.
.SH NOTES
After all updates have been applied, the raster map\(cqs resolution
settings are recomputed from the boundaries and the number of rows and
columns in the raster map.
.PP
The n=\fIvalue\fR may also be specified as a
function of its current value:  n=n+\fIvalue\fR
increases the current northing, while n=n\-\fIvalue\fR
decreases it.  This is also true for s=\fIvalue\fR,
e=\fIvalue\fR, and w=\fIvalue\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Assign absolute coordinates to map:
.br
.nf
\fC
r.region map=mymap n=220750 s=220000 w=638300 e=639000
\fR
.fi
.PP
Shift map (using offset, here by +100 map units in the NS direction, \-50 in the EW direction):
.br
.nf
\fC
r.region map=mymap n=n+100 e=e\-50 w=w\-50 s=s+100
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.support,
g.region,
v.transform
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Glynn Clements
.br
Based upon \fIg.region\fR
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
r.region source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
