.TH r.report 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.report\fR\fR  \- Reports statistics for raster maps.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.report\fR
.br
\fBr.report \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.report\fR [\-\fBhfenaci\fR] \fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR,...]  [\fBunits\fR=\fIstring\fR[,\fIstring\fR,...]]   [\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBnull_value\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBpage_length\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBpage_width\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBnsteps\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBsort\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-h\fR" 4m
.br
Suppress page headers
.IP "\fB\-f\fR" 4m
.br
Use formfeeds between pages
.IP "\fB\-e\fR" 4m
.br
Scientific format
.IP "\fB\-n\fR" 4m
.br
Do not report no data value
.IP "\fB\-a\fR" 4m
.br
Do not report cells where all maps have no data
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 4m
.br
Report for cats floating\-point ranges (floating\-point maps only)
.IP "\fB\-i\fR" 4m
.br
Read floating\-point map as integer (use map\(cqs quant rules)
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmap\fR=\fIname[,\fIname\fR,...]\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of raster map(s) to report on
.IP "\fBunits\fR=\fIstring[,\fIstring\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Units to report
.br
Options: \fImi, me, k, a, h, c, p\fR
.br
\fBmi\fR: area in square miles
.br
\fBme\fR: area in square meters
.br
\fBk\fR: area in square kilometers
.br
\fBa\fR: area in acres
.br
\fBh\fR: area in hectares
.br
\fBc\fR: number of cells
.br
\fBp\fR: percent cover
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output file to hold the report
.br
If no output file given report is printed to standard output
.IP "\fBnull_value\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
String representing NULL value
.br
Default: \fI*\fR
.IP "\fBpage_length\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Page length
.br
Default: \fI0\fR
.IP "\fBpage_width\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Page width
.br
Default: \fI79\fR
.IP "\fBnsteps\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Number of floating\-point subranges to collect stats from
.br
Default: \fI255\fR
.IP "\fBsort\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Sort output statistics by cell counts
.br
Default: sorted by categories or intervals
.br
Options: \fIasc, desc\fR
.br
\fBasc\fR: Sort by cell counts in ascending order
.br
\fBdesc\fR: Sort by cell counts in descending order
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.report\fR allows the user to set up a series of report
parameters to be applied to a raster map, and creates a report. The
report will print out to the standard output if \fBoutput\fR
parameter is not given.
.PP
The report itself consists of two parts, a header section and the main
body of the report.
.PP
The header section of the report identifies the raster map(s) (by map
name and title), location, mapset, report date, and the region of
interest. The area of interest is described in two parts: the user\(cqs
current geographic region is presented, and the mask is presented (if
any is used).
.PP
The main body of the report consists of from one to three tables which
present the statistics for each category and the totals for each unit
column. Note that the statistics is always computed in the current
geographical region.
.PP
When multiple (typically two) raster maps are specified, cross\-tabulation
table for each combination of categories in the raster maps will be computed
and formatted in a human\-readable way (see example).
.SH NOTES
Note that, unlike \fIr.stats\fR,
\fIr.report\fR allows the user to select the specific units of
measure in which statistics will be reported. To output
computer\-friendly data suitable for importing into a spreadsheet use
the \fIr.stats\fR module. In
fact \fIr.report\fR is running
\fIr.stats\fR in the background and
reformatting the results to be more human\-friendly.
.SH EXAMPLE
Report sorted areas in square miles and acres for each
category. No\-data are not reported (see \fB\-n\fR flag).
.br
.nf
\fC
r.report \-n map=geology_30m units=mi,a sort=desc
\fR
.fi
.br
.nf
\fC
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-+
|                         RASTER MAP CATEGORY REPORT                          |
|LOCATION: nc_spm_08_grass7                           Fri Dec  6 17:00:21 2013|
|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-|
|          north: 279073.97546639    east: 798143.31179672                    |
|REGION    south: 113673.97546639    west: 595143.31179672                    |
|          res:               200    res:              200                    |
|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-|
|MASK: none                                                                   |
|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-|
|MAP: South\-West Wake county: geology derived from vector map (geology_30m in |
|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-|
|                 Category Information                  |    square|          |
|  #|description                                        |     miles|     acres|
|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-|
|217|CZfg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . | 27.783911|17,781.703|
|270|CZig . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . | 26.162282|16,743.861|
|405|CZbg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |  9.698886|  6207.287|
|262|CZlg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |  7.629379|  4882.802|
|862|CZam . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |  2.532830|  1621.011|
|910|CZbg . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |  1.683405|  1077.379|
|583|CZve . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |  0.972977|   622.706|
|921|Km . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |  0.463323|   296.526|
|766|CZg. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |  0.324326|   207.569|
|720|CZam . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |  0.185329|   118.611|
|946|CZam . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |  0.138997|    88.958|
|948|CZam . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |  0.030888|    19.768|
|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-|
|TOTAL                                                  | 77.606534|49,668.182|
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-+
\fR
.fi
Report areas for each category of land use for each zipcode (included only part of the table):
.br
.nf
\fC
r.report map=zipcodes@PERMANENT,landclass96@PERMANENT units=h,p
\fR
.fi
.br
.nf
\fC
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-+
|                         RASTER MAP CATEGORY REPORT                          |
|LOCATION: nc_spm_08_latest                           Tue Feb 11 10:10:46 2014|
|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-|
|          north: 228527.25    east: 644971                                   |
|REGION    south: 215018.25    west: 629980                                   |
|          res:        28.5    res:    28.5                                   |
|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-|
|MASK: none                                                                   |
|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-|
|MAPS: South West Wake: Zipcode areas derived from vector map (zipcodes@PERMAN|
|        South\-West Wake county: Simplified landuse classes (landclass96@PERMA|
|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-|
|                   Category Information                    |          |   %  |
|    #|description                                          |  hectares| cover|
|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-|
|27511|CARY                                                 |  1053.813|  5.20|
|     |\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-|\-\-\-\-\-\-|
|     |1|developed. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |   197.214| 18.71|
|     |3|herbaceous . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |    25.017|  2.37|
|     |4|shrubland. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |    58.563|  5.56|
|     |5|forest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |   771.313| 73.19|
|     |6|water. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |     1.625|  0.15|
|     |*|no data. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |     0.081|  0.01|
|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-|\-\-\-\-\-\-|
|27513|CARY                                                 |   204.525|  1.01|
|     |\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-|\-\-\-\-\-\-|
|     |1|developed. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |    32.571| 15.93|
|     |3|herbaceous . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |     6.011|  2.94|
|     |4|shrubland. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |    51.659| 25.26|
|     |5|forest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . |   114.284| 55.88|
|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-|\-\-\-\-\-\-|
\&...
|\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-|
|TOTAL                                                      |22,968.900|100.00|
+\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-+
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.stats,
g.region,
r.coin,
r.describe,
r.info,
r.univar
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Michael Shapiro, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory
.br
Sort option by Martin Landa, Czech Technical University in Prague, 2013
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
r.report source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
