.TH r.series.interp 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.series.interp\fR\fR  \- Interpolates raster maps located (temporal or spatial) in between input raster maps at specific sampling positions.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, series, interpolation
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.series.interp\fR
.br
\fBr.series.interp \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.series.interp\fR  [\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR,...]]   [\fBdatapos\fR=\fIfloat\fR[,\fIfloat\fR,...]]   [\fBinfile\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR,...]]   [\fBsamplingpos\fR=\fIfloat\fR[,\fIfloat\fR,...]]   [\fBoutfile\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBmethod\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname[,\fIname\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map(s)
.IP "\fBdatapos\fR=\fIfloat[,\fIfloat\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Data point position for each input map
.IP "\fBinfile\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Input file with one input raster map name and data point position per line, field separator between name and sample point is |
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname[,\fIname\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map
.IP "\fBsamplingpos\fR=\fIfloat[,\fIfloat\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Sampling point position for each output map
.IP "\fBoutfile\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Input file with one output raster map name and sample point position per line, field separator between name and sample point is |
.IP "\fBmethod\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Interpolation method, currently only linear interpolation is supported
.br
Options: \fIlinear\fR
.br
Default: \fIlinear\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.series.interp\fR
interpolates new raster maps located temporal or spatial in between existing raster maps.
The interpolation is performed at specific sampling positions. The sampling position for each output map must be specified,
as well as the data position of the input maps.
The following interpolation methods are supported.
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
linear: Linear interpolation. At least two input maps and data positions are required.
.RE
.SH EXAMPLES
Interpolate linear three new maps at 3 sampling positions in the interval (0.0;1.0)
.br
First prepare the input maps:
.br
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region s=0 n=80 w=0 e=120 b=0 t=50 res=10 res3=10 \-p3
r.mapcalc expr=\(dqprec_1 = 100\(dq
r.mapcalc expr=\(dqprec_5 = 500\(dq
\fR
.fi
.PP
Interpolate
.br
.nf
\fC
r.series.interp \-\-v input=prec_1,prec_5 datapos=0.0,1.0 \(rs
                  output=prec_2,prec_3,prec_4 samplingpos=0.25,0.5,0.75 \(rs
                  method=linear
\fR
.fi
.PP
Interpolate using the file option.
First prepare the input file:
.br
.br
.nf
\fC
echo \(dqprec_2|0.25
prec_3|0.5
prec_4|0.75\(dq >> outfile.txt
\fR
.fi
.PP
Interpolate:
.br
.nf
\fC
r.series.interp \-\-v input=prec_1,prec_5 datapos=0.0,1.0 file=outfile.txt method=linear
\fR
.fi
The resulting maps will have the values 200, 300 and 400.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
g.region,
r.series,
r.series.accumulate
\fR
.PP
Hints for large raster data processing
.SH AUTHOR
Sören Gebbert
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
r.series.interp source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
