.TH r.shade 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.shade.py\fR\fR  \- Drapes a color raster over an shaded relief or aspect map.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, elevation, relief, hillshade, visualization
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.shade.py\fR
.br
\fBr.shade.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.shade.py\fR [\-\fBc\fR] \fBshade\fR=\fIname\fR \fBcolor\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBbrighten\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBbgcolor\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 4m
.br
Use colors from color tables for NULL values
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBshade\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of shaded relief or aspect raster map
.IP "\fBcolor\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of raster to drape over relief raster map
.br
Typically, this raster is elevation or other colorful raster
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of shaded raster map
.IP "\fBbrighten\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Percent to brighten
.br
Options: \fI\-99\-99\fR
.br
Default: \fI0\fR
.IP "\fBbgcolor\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Color to use instead of NULL values
.br
Either a standard color name, R:G:B triplet, or \(dqnone\(dq
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.shade\fR will drape a color raster map over a shaded relief map.
In place of shaded relief, any raster map can be used including aspect or slope.
The color raster map is usually an elevation raster map with colorful color
table (as opposed to gray scale color table). However, any raster map can be
used including categorical raster maps.
The result is a raster map created from elevation and the shade raster.
.PP
Comparing to creating shaded relief as semi\-transparent overlay on
the color raster map, this module gives result with more saturated colors.
.PP
The input for this module can be created for example using
\fIr.slope.aspect\fR or
\fIr.relief\fR.
.PP
NULL values are propagated by default, so if any of the two input rasters
contains NULL cell NULL will be also in the output. If \fB\-c\fR flag is
used and cell in \fBcolor\fR raster is NULL, just \fBshade\fR
color is used. If cell in \fBshade\fR raster is NULL, shading effect
is not applied and original colors are used. If \fBbgcolor\fR option is
used, NULL value in any input raster will be in the output replaced
by the given color.
.SH NOTES
Refer to the \fIr.his\fR help page for more details;
\fIr.shade\fR is a frontend to that module with addition of
brightness support similar to one provided by
\fId.shade\fR.
However, note that the brightness is not implemenented in the same way as for
\fId.shade\fR and the results might
be different.
\fIr.shade\fR is using method described in \fIr.his\fR
manual page.
.SH EXAMPLES
In this example, the aspect map in the North Carolina sample
dataset location is used to hillshade the elevation map:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=aspect \-p
r.shade shade=aspect color=elevation output=elevation_aspect_shaded
d.mon wx0
d.rast elevation_aspect_shaded
\fR
.fi
In this next example, a shaded relief raster map is created
and used to create a colorized hillshade
raster map for later use:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=elevation
r.relief input=elevation output=elevation_shaded_relief
r.shade shade=elevation_shaded_relief color=elevation \(rs
    output=elevation_relief_shaded
d.mon wx1
d.rast elevation_relief_shaded
\fR
.fi
Interesting visualizations can be created using different color tables for
elevation raster map, for example using haxby color table.
.PP
Figure: A detail of raster created by applying shading effect of shaded relief
(hillshade) to elevation raster map from North Carolina dataset elevation map
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.his,
d.his,
d.shade,
g.pnmcomp,
r.slope.aspect,
r.relief
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Hamish Bowman
.br
Vaclav Petras, NCSU OSGeoREL
.br
Inspired by \fId.shade\fR and
manual for \fIr.his\fR.
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r.shade source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
