.TH r.stream.extract 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.stream.extract\fR\fR  \- Performs stream network extraction.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, hydrology, stream network
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.stream.extract\fR
.br
\fBr.stream.extract \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.stream.extract\fR \fBelevation\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBaccumulation\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBdepression\fR=\fIname\fR]  \fBthreshold\fR=\fIfloat\fR  [\fBd8cut\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBmexp\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBstream_length\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBmemory\fR=\fImemory in MB\fR]   [\fBstream_raster\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBstream_vector\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBdirection\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBelevation\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input elevation raster map
.IP "\fBaccumulation\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input accumulation raster map
.br
Stream extraction will use provided accumulation instead of calculating it anew
.IP "\fBdepression\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map with real depressions
.br
Streams will not be routed out of real depressions
.IP "\fBthreshold\fR=\fIfloat\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Minimum flow accumulation for streams
.br
Must be > 0
.IP "\fBd8cut\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Use SFD above this threshold
.br
If accumulation is larger than d8cut, SFD is used instead of MFD. Applies only if no accumulation map is given.
.IP "\fBmexp\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Montgomery exponent for slope, disabled with 0
.br
Montgomery: accumulation is multiplied with pow(slope,mexp) and then compared with threshold
.br
Default: \fI0\fR
.IP "\fBstream_length\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Delete stream segments shorter than stream_length cells
.br
Applies only to first\-order stream segments (springs/stream heads)
.br
Default: \fI0\fR
.IP "\fBmemory\fR=\fImemory in MB\fR" 4m
.br
Maximum memory to be used (in MB)
.br
Cache size for raster rows
.br
Default: \fI300\fR
.IP "\fBstream_raster\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map with unique stream ids
.IP "\fBstream_vector\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output vector map with unique stream ids
.IP "\fBdirection\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map with flow direction
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.stream.extract\fR extracts streams in both raster and vector
format from a required input \fBelevation\fR map and optional input
\fBaccumulation\fR map.
.SH NOTES
.PP
NULL (nodata) cells in the input \fBelevation\fR map are ignored,
zero and negative values are valid elevation data. Gaps in the
elevation map that are located within the area of interest must be
filled beforehand, e.g. with
\fIr.fillnulls\fR, to avoid distortions.
.PP
All non\-NULL and non\-zero cells of \fBdepression\fR map will be
regarded as real depressions. Streams will not be routed out of
depressions. If an area is marked as depression but the elevation
model has no depression at this location, streams will not stop
there. If a flow accumulation map and a map with real depressions are
provided, the flow accumulation map must match the depression map such
that flow is not distributed out of the indicated depressions. It is
recommended to use internally computed flow accumulation if a
depression map is provided.
.PP
Option \fBthreshold\fR defines the minimum (optionally modified) flow
accumulation value that will initiate a new stream. If Montgomery\(cqs
method for channel initiation is used, the cell value of the
accumulation input map is multiplied by (tan(local
slope))\umexp\d and then compared
to \fBthreshold\fR. If \fBmexp\fR is given, then the method of
Montgomery and Foufoula\-Georgiou (1993) is used to initiate a stream with this
value. The cell value of the accumulation input map is multiplied
by (tan(local slope))\umexp\d and then compared
to \fBthreshold\fR. If threshold is reached or exceeded, a new stream
is initiated. The default value 0 disables Montgomery. Montgomery and
Foufoula\-Georgiou (1993) generally recommend to use 2.0 as
exponent. \fBmexp\fR values closer to 0 will produce streams more
similar to streams extracted with Montgomery disabled.
Larger \fBmexp\fR values decrease the number of streams in flat areas
and increase the number of streams in steep areas. If \fBweight\fR is
given, the weight is applied first.
.PP
Option \fBd8cut\fR defines minimum amount of overland flow
(accumulation) when SFD (D8) will be used instead of MFD (FD8) to
calculate flow accumulation. Only applies if no accumulation map is
provided. Setting to 0 disables MFD completely.
.PP
Option \fBstream_length\fR defines minimum stream length in number of
cells for first\-order (head/spring) stream segments. All first\-order
stream segments shorter than \fBstream_length\fR will be deleted.
.PP
Output \fBdirection\fR raster map contains flow direction for all
non\-NULL cells in input elevation. Flow direction is of D8 type with a
range of 1 to 8.  Multiplying values with 45 gives degrees CCW from
East. Flow direction was adjusted during thinning, taking shortcuts
and skipping cells that were eliminated by the thinning procedure.
.SS Stream extraction
If no \fBaccumulation\fR input map is provided, flow accumulation is
determined with a hydrological analysis similar to
\fIr.watershed\fR. The algorithm is
MFD (FD8) after Holmgren 1994, as for
\fIr.watershed\fR. The \fBthreshold\fR
option determines the number of streams and detail of stream networks.
Whenever flow accumulation reaches \fBthreshold\fR, a new stream is
started and traced downstream to its outlet point. As for
\fIr.watershed\fR, flow accumulation is
calculated as the number of cells draining through a cell.
.PP
If \fBaccumulation\fR is given, then the accumulation values of the
provided \fBaccumulation\fR map are used and not calculated from the
input \fBelevation\fR map. In this case, the \fBelevation\fR map must
be exactly the same map used to calculate
\fBaccumulation\fR. If \fBaccumulation\fR was calculated with
\fIr.terraflow\fR, the filled
elevation output
of \fIr.terraflow\fR must be
used. Further on, the current region should be aligned to
the \fBaccumulation\fR map. Flow direction is first calculated
from \fBelevation\fR and then adjusted to
\fBaccumulation\fR. It is not necessary to provide \fBaccumulation\fR
as the number of cells, it can also be the optionally adjusted or
weighed total contributing area in square meters or any other unit.
When an original flow accumulation map is adjusted or weighed, the
adjustment or weighing should not convert valid accumulation values to
NULL (nodata) values.
.PP
In case of getting the error message
ERROR: Accumulation raster map is NULL but elevation map is not NULL
the computational region must be carefully adjusted to exclude NULL pixels
in the accumulation raster map prior to stream extraction.
.SS Weighed flow accumulation
Flow accumulation can be calculated first, e.g. with
\fIr.watershed\fR, and then modified before
using it as input for \fIr.stream.extract\fR. In its general form, a
weighed accumulation map is generated by first creating a weighing map
and then multiplying the accumulation map with the weighing map using
\fIr.mapcalc\fR. It is highly recommended to
evaluate the weighed flow accumulation map first, before using it as
input for \fIr.stream.extract\fR.
.PP
This allows e.g. to decrease the number of streams in dry areas and
increase the number of streams in wet areas by setting \fBweight\fR
to smaller than 1 in dry areas and larger than 1 in wet areas.
.PP
Another possibility is to restrict channel initiation to valleys
determined from terrain morphology. Valleys can be determined with
\fIr.param.scale\fR method=crosc
(cross\-sectional or tangential curvature). Curvature values < 0
indicate concave features, i.e. valleys. The size of the processing
window determines whether narrow or broad valleys will be identified
(See example below).
.SS Defining a region of interest
The stream extraction procedure can be restricted to a certain region of
interest, e.g. a subbasin, by setting the computational region with
\fIg.region\fR and/or creating a MASK. Such region of interest should
be a complete catchment area, complete in the sense that the complete
area upstream of an outlet point is included and buffered with at least
one cell.
.SS Stream output
The output raster and vector contains stream segments with unique
IDs. Note that these IDs are different from the IDs assigned
by \fIr.watershed\fR. The vector
output also contains points at the location of the start of a stream
segment, at confluences and at stream network outlet locations.
.PP
Output \fBstream_raster\fR raster map stores extracted streams. Cell
values encode a unique ID for each stream segment.
.PP
Output \fBstream_vector\fR vector map stores extracted stream segments
and points. Points are written at the start location of each stream
segment and at the outlet of a stream network. In layer 1, categories
are unique IDs, identical to the cell value of the raster output. The
attribute table for layer 1 holds information about the type of stream
segment: start segment, or intermediate segment with tributaries, and
about the stream network this stream or node belongs to. Columns are
cat int,stream_type varchar(),type_code int,network int. The
network attribute is the network ID of the stream/node. The encoding
for type_code is 0 = start, 1 = intermediate. In layer 2, categories
are identical to type_code in layer 1 with additional category 2 =
outlet for outlet points. Points with category 1 = intermediate in
layer 2 are at the location of confluences.
.SH EXAMPLE
This example is based on the elevation map \(dqelev_ned_30m\(dq in the
North Carolina sample dataset and uses valleys determined with
\fIr.param.scale\fR to weigh an accumulation
map produced with \fIr.watershed\fR.
.br
.nf
\fC
# set region
g.region \-p raster=elev_ned_30m@PERMANENT
# calculate flow accumulation
r.watershed ele=elev_ned_30m@PERMANENT acc=elev_ned_30m.acc
# curvature to get narrow valleys
r.param.scale input=elev_ned_30m@PERMANENT output=tangential_curv_5 size=5 method=crosc
# curvature to get a bit broader valleys
r.param.scale input=elev_ned_30m@PERMANENT output=tangential_curv_7 size=7 method=crosc
# curvature to get broad valleys
r.param.scale input=elev_ned_30m@PERMANENT output=tangential_curv_11 size=11 method=crosc
# create weight map
r.mapcalc \(dqweight = if(tangential_curv_5 < 0, \-100 * tangential_curv_5, \(rs
                    if(tangential_curv_7 < 0, \-100 * tangential_curv_7, \(rs
                    if(tangential_curv_11 < 0, \-100 * tangential_curv_11, 0.000001)))\(dq
# weigh accumulation map
r.mapcalc expr=\(dqelev_ned_30m.acc.weighed = elev_ned_30m.acc * weight\(dq
# copy color table from original accumulation map
r.colors map=elev_ned_30m.acc.weighed raster=elev_ned_30m.acc
\fR
.fi
.PP
.br
Weight map (spatial subset with lake in the southern half)
.PP
.br
Original flow accumulation map (spatial subset with lake in the southern half)
.PP
.br
Weighed flow accumulation map (spatial subset with lake in the southern half)
.PP
Display both the original and the weighed accumulation map.
Compare them and proceed if the weighed accumulation map makes sense.
.br
.nf
\fC
# extract streams using the original accumulation map
r.stream.extract elevation=elev_ned_30m@PERMANENT \(rs
                 accumulation=elev_ned_30m.acc \(rs
                 threshold=1000 \(rs
                 stream_rast=elev_ned_30m.streams.noweight
# extract streams from weighed map
# note that the weighed map is a bit smaller than the original map
r.stream.extract elevation=elev_ned_30m@PERMANENT \(rs
                 accumulation=elev_ned_30m.acc.weighed \(rs
                 threshold=1000 \(rs
                 stream_rast=elev_ned_30m.streams
\fR
.fi
.PP
Now display both stream maps and decide which one is more realistic.
.PP
.br
Extracted streams from original flow accumulation map
.PP
.br
Extracted streams from weighed flow accumulation map
.SH REFERENCES
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
Ehlschlaeger, C. (1989). \fIUsing the A\uT\d Search
Algorithm to Develop Hydrologic Models from Digital Elevation
Data\fR,
\fBProceedings of International Geographic Information Systems (IGIS)
Symposium \(cq89\fR, pp 275\-281 (Baltimore, MD, 18\-19 March
1989). URL:
http://faculty.wiu.edu/CR\-Ehlschlaeger2/older/IGIS/paper.html
.IP \(bu 4n
Holmgren, P. (1994). \fIMultiple flow direction algorithms for
runoff modelling in grid based elevation models: An empirical
evaluation.\fR
\fBHydrological Processes\fR Vol 8(4), pp 327\-334. DOI: 10.1002/hyp.3360080405
.IP \(bu 4n
Montgomery, D.R., Foufoula\-Georgiou, E. (1993). \fIChannel network source
representation using digital elevation models.\fR
\fBWater Resources Research\fR Vol 29(12), pp 3925\-3934.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.mapcalc,
r.param.scale,
r.stream.channel (Addon),
r.stream.distance (Addon),
r.stream.order (Addon),
r.stream.segment (Addon),
r.stream.slope (Addon),
r.stream.snap (Addon),
r.stream.stats (Addon),
r.terraflow,
r.thin,
r.to.vect,
r.watershed
\fR
.PP
See
also r.streams.*
modules wiki page.
.SH AUTHOR
Markus Metz
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
r.stream.extract source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
