.TH r.support 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.support\fR\fR  \- Allows creation and/or modification of raster map layer support files.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, metadata
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.support\fR
.br
\fBr.support \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.support\fR [\-\fBsnd\fR] \fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBtitle\fR=\fIphrase\fR]   [\fBhistory\fR=\fIphrase\fR]   [\fBunits\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBvdatum\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBsource1\fR=\fIphrase\fR]   [\fBsource2\fR=\fIphrase\fR]   [\fBdescription\fR=\fIphrase\fR]   [\fBraster\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBloadhistory\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBsavehistory\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-s\fR" 4m
.br
Update statistics (histogram, range)
.IP "\fB\-n\fR" 4m
.br
Create/reset the null file
.IP "\fB\-d\fR" 4m
.br
Delete the null file
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of raster map
.IP "\fBtitle\fR=\fIphrase\fR" 4m
.br
Title for resultant raster map
.IP "\fBhistory\fR=\fIphrase\fR" 4m
.br
Text to append to the next line of the map\(cqs metadata file
.IP "\fBunits\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Text to use for map data units
.IP "\fBvdatum\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Text to use for map vertical datum
.IP "\fBsource1\fR=\fIphrase\fR" 4m
.br
Text to use for data source, line 1
.IP "\fBsource2\fR=\fIphrase\fR" 4m
.br
Text to use for data source, line 2
.IP "\fBdescription\fR=\fIphrase\fR" 4m
.br
Text to use for data description or keyword(s)
.IP "\fBraster\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Raster map from which to copy category table
.IP "\fBloadhistory\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Text file from which to load history
.IP "\fBsavehistory\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Text file in which to save history
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBr.support\fR allows the user to create and/or edit raster map support
information. Editing of raster map color tables, category labels, header,
history, and title is supported. Category labels can also be copied from
another raster map.
.SH EXAMPLES
These examples are based on the North Carolina dataset, more specfically the \fIlanduse\fR raster map.
Copy the landuse map to the current mapset
.br
.nf
\fC
g.copy raster=landuse,my_landuse
\fR
.fi
.SS Update statistics
.br
.nf
\fC
r.support \-s map=my_landuse
\fR
.fi
.SS Update Title
.br
.nf
\fC
r.support map=my_landuse title=\(dqLanduse copied\(dq
\fR
.fi
.SS Append to History Metadata
.br
.nf
\fC
r.support map=my_landuse history=\(dqCopied from PERMANENT mapset\(dq
\fR
.fi
.SS Update Units Display
.br
.nf
\fC
r.support map=my_landuse units=meter
\fR
.fi
.SH NOTES
If metadata options such as \fBtitle\fR or \fBhistory\fR are given the
module will run  non\-interactively. If only the map name is given
\fIr.support\fR will run interactively within a terminal shell and the
user with be prompted for input.
.PP
Freeform metadata information is stored in a \(dqhist\(dq file which may be
appended to by using the \fBhistory\fR option. Currently this is limited to
50 lines of text with a maximum line length of 78 characters. Any input
larger than this will be wrapped to the next line.
All other metadata strings available as standard options are limited to
79 characters.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.category,
r.describe,
r.info,
r.null,
r.region,
r.report,
r.timestamp
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Micharl Shapiro, CERL: Original author
.br
Brad Douglas: GRASS 6 Port
.br
M. Hamish Bowman: command line enhancements
.br
Markus Neteler: category copy from other map
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
r.support source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
