.TH r.sun 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.sun\fR\fR  \- Solar irradiance and irradiation model.
.br
Computes direct (beam), diffuse and reflected solar irradiation raster maps for given day, latitude, surface and atmospheric conditions. Solar parameters (e.g. sunrise, sunset times, declination, extraterrestrial irradiance, daylight length) are saved in the map history file. Alternatively, a local time can be specified to compute solar incidence angle and/or irradiance raster maps. The shadowing effect of the topography is optionally incorporated.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, solar, sun energy, shadow
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.sun\fR
.br
\fBr.sun \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.sun\fR [\-\fBpm\fR] \fBelevation\fR=\fIstring\fR  [\fBaspect\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBaspect_value\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBslope\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBslope_value\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBlinke\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBlinke_value\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBalbedo\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBalbedo_value\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBlat\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBlong\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBcoeff_bh\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBcoeff_dh\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBhorizon_basename\fR=\fIbasename\fR]   [\fBhorizon_step\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBincidout\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBbeam_rad\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBdiff_rad\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBrefl_rad\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBglob_rad\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBinsol_time\fR=\fIstring\fR]  \fBday\fR=\fIinteger\fR  [\fBstep\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBdeclination\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBsolar_constant\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBtime\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBnprocs\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBdistance_step\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBnpartitions\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBcivil_time\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-p\fR" 4m
.br
Do not incorporate the shadowing effect of terrain
.IP "\fB\-m\fR" 4m
.br
Use the low\-memory version of the program
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBelevation\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of the input elevation raster map [meters]
.IP "\fBaspect\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Name of the input aspect map (terrain aspect or azimuth of the solar panel) [decimal degrees]
.IP "\fBaspect_value\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
A single value of the orientation (aspect), 270 is south
.br
Default: \fI270\fR
.IP "\fBslope\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Name of the input slope raster map (terrain slope or solar panel inclination) [decimal degrees]
.IP "\fBslope_value\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
A single value of inclination (slope)
.br
Default: \fI0.0\fR
.IP "\fBlinke\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Name of the Linke atmospheric turbidity coefficient input raster map [\-]
.IP "\fBlinke_value\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
A single value of the Linke atmospheric turbidity coefficient [\-]
.br
Default: \fI3.0\fR
.IP "\fBalbedo\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Name of the ground albedo coefficient input raster map [\-]
.IP "\fBalbedo_value\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
A single value of the ground albedo coefficient [\-]
.br
Default: \fI0.2\fR
.IP "\fBlat\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map containing latitudes [decimal degrees]
.IP "\fBlong\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map containing longitudes [decimal degrees]
.IP "\fBcoeff_bh\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Name of real\-sky beam radiation coefficient (thick cloud) input raster map [0\-1]
.IP "\fBcoeff_dh\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Name of real\-sky diffuse radiation coefficient (haze) input raster map [0\-1]
.IP "\fBhorizon_basename\fR=\fIbasename\fR" 4m
.br
The horizon information input map basename
.IP "\fBhorizon_step\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Angle step size for multidirectional horizon [degrees]
.IP "\fBincidout\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Output incidence angle raster map (mode 1 only)
.IP "\fBbeam_rad\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Output beam irradiance [W.m\-2] (mode 1) or irradiation raster map [Wh.m\-2.day\-1] (mode 2)
.IP "\fBdiff_rad\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Output diffuse irradiance [W.m\-2] (mode 1) or irradiation raster map [Wh.m\-2.day\-1] (mode 2)
.IP "\fBrefl_rad\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Output ground reflected irradiance [W.m\-2] (mode 1) or irradiation raster map [Wh.m\-2.day\-1] (mode 2)
.IP "\fBglob_rad\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Output global (total) irradiance/irradiation [W.m\-2] (mode 1) or irradiance/irradiation raster map [Wh.m\-2.day\-1] (mode 2)
.IP "\fBinsol_time\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Output insolation time raster map [h] (mode 2 only)
.IP "\fBday\fR=\fIinteger\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
No. of day of the year (1\-365)
.br
Options: \fI1\-365\fR
.IP "\fBstep\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Time step when computing all\-day radiation sums [decimal hours]
.br
Default: \fI0.5\fR
.IP "\fBdeclination\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Declination value (overriding the internally computed value) [radians]
.IP "\fBsolar_constant\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Solar constant [W/m^2]
.br
Default: \fI1367\fR
.IP "\fBtime\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Local (solar) time (to be set for mode 1 only) [decimal hours]
.br
Options: \fI0\-24\fR
.IP "\fBnprocs\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Number of threads which will be used for parallel computing
.br
Options: \fI1\-1000\fR
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBdistance_step\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Sampling distance step coefficient (0.5\-1.5)
.br
Default: \fI1.0\fR
.IP "\fBnpartitions\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Read the input files in this number of chunks
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBcivil_time\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Civil time zone value, if none, the time will be local solar time
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBr.sun\fR computes beam (direct), diffuse and ground reflected solar
irradiation raster maps for given day, latitude, surface and atmospheric
conditions. Solar parameters (e.g. time of sunrise and sunset, declination,
extraterrestrial irradiance, daylight length) are stored in the resultant maps\(cq
history files. Alternatively, the local time can be specified to compute solar
incidence angle and/or irradiance raster maps. The shadowing effect of the
topography is incorporated by default. This can be done either internally by
calculatoion of the shadowing effect directly from the digital elevation model
or by specifying raster maps of the horizon height which is much faster. These
horizon raster maps can be calculated using r.horizon.
.PP
For latitude\-longitude coordinates it requires that the elevation map is in meters.
The rules are:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
lat/lon coordinates: elevation in meters;
.IP \(bu 4n
Other coordinates: elevation in the same unit as the easting\-northing coordinates.
.RE
The solar geometry of the model is based on the works of Krcho (1990), later
improved by Jenco (1992). The equations describing Sun \-\- Earth position as
well as an interaction of the solar radiation with atmosphere were originally
based on the formulas suggested by Kitler and Mikler (1986). This component
was considerably updated by the results and suggestions of the working group
co\-ordinated by Scharmer and Greif (2000) (this algorithm might be replaced
by SOLPOS algorithm\-library included in GRASS within
r.sunmask
command). The model computes all three components of global radiation (beam,
diffuse and reflected) for the clear sky conditions, i.e. not taking into
consideration the spatial and temporal variation of clouds. The extent and
spatial resolution of the modelled area, as well as integration over time,
are limited only by the memory and data storage resources. The model is built
to fulfil user needs in various fields of science (hydrology, climatology,
ecology and environmental sciences, photovoltaics, engineering, etc.) for
continental, regional up to the landscape scales.
.PP
The model considers a shadowing effect of the local topography unless switched
off with the \fI\-p\fR flag.
\fBr.sun\fR works in two modes: In the first mode it calculates for the set
local time a solar incidence angle [degrees] and solar irradiance values [W.m\-2].
In the second mode daily sums of solar radiation [Wh.m\-2.day\-1] are computed
within a set day. By a scripting the two modes can be used separately or
in a combination to provide estimates for any desired time interval. The
model accounts for sky obstruction by local relief features. Several solar
parameters are saved in the resultant maps\(cq history files, which may be viewed
with the r.info command.
.PP
The solar incidence angle raster map \fIincidout\fR is computed specifying
elevation raster map \fIelevation\fR, aspect raster map \fIaspect\fR, slope
steepness raster map \fIslope,\fR given the day \fIday\fR and local time
\fItime\fR. There is no need to define latitude for locations with known
and defined projection/coordinate system (check it with the
g.proj
command). If you have undefined projection, (x,y) system, etc. then the latitude
can be defined explicitly for large areas by input raster map \fIlat_in\fR
with interpolated latitude values. All input raster maps must
be floating point (FCELL) raster maps. Null data in maps are excluded from
the computation (and also speeding\-up the computation), so each output raster
map will contain null data in cells according to all input raster maps. The
user can use r.null
command to create/reset null file for your input raster maps.
.br
The specified day \fIday\fR is the number of the day of the general year
where January 1 is day no.1 and December 31 is 365. Time \fItime\fR must
be a local (solar) time (i.e. NOT a zone time, e.g. GMT, CET) in decimal system,
e.g. 7.5 (= 7h 30m A.M.), 16.1 = 4h 6m P.M..
.PP
The solar \fIdeclination\fR parameter is an option to override
the value computed by the internal routine for the day of the year. The value
of geographical latitude can be set as a constant for the whole computed
region or, as an option, a grid representing spatially distributed values
over a large region. The geographical latitude must be also in decimal system
with positive values for northern hemisphere and negative for southern one.
In similar principle the Linke turbidity factor (\fIlinke\fR, \fIlin\fR
) and ground albedo (\fIalbedo\fR, \fIalb\fR) can be set.
.PP
Besides clear\-sky radiations, the user can compute a real\-sky radiation (beam,
diffuse) using \fIcoeff_bh\fR and \fIcoeff_dh\fR input raster maps defining
the fraction of the respective clear\-sky radiations reduced by atmospheric
factors (e.g. cloudiness). The value is between 0\-1. Usually these
coefficients can be obtained from a long\-terms meteorological measurements
provided as raster maps with spatial distribution of these coefficients separately
for beam and diffuse radiation (see Suri and Hofierka, 2004, section 3.2).
.PP
The solar irradiation or irradiance raster maps \fIbeam_rad\fR, \fIdiff_rad\fR,
\fIrefl_rad\fR are computed for a given day \fIday,\fR latitude \fIlat_in\fR,
elevation \fIelevation\fR, slope \fIslope\fR and aspect \fIaspect\fR raster maps.
For convenience, the output raster given as \fIglob_rad\fR
will output the sum of the three radiation components. The program uses
the Linke atmosphere turbidity factor and ground albedo coefficient.
A default, single value of Linke factor is \fIlin\fR=3.0 and
is near the annual average for rural\-city areas. The Linke
factor for an absolutely clear atmosphere is \fIlin\fR=1.0. See notes below
to learn more about this factor. The incidence solar angle is the angle between
horizon and solar beam vector.
.PP
The solar radiation maps for a given day are computed by integrating the
relevant irradiance between sunrise and sunset times for that day. The
user can set a finer or coarser time step used for all\-day radiation
calculations with the \fIstep\fR option. The default value of \fIstep\fR is
0.5 hour. Larger steps (e.g. 1.0\-2.0) can speed\-up calculations but produce
less reliable (and more jagged) results. As the sun moves through approx.
15° of the sky in an hour, the default \fIstep\fR of half an hour will
produce 7.5° steps in the data. For relatively smooth output with the
sun placed for every degree of movement in the sky you should set the
\fIstep\fR to 4 minutes or less. \fIstep\fR=0.05 is equivalent
to every 3 minutes. Of course setting the time step to be very fine
proportionally increases the module\(cqs running time.
.PP
The output units are in Wh per squared meter per given
day [Wh/(m*m)/day]. The incidence angle and irradiance/irradiation maps are
computed with the shadowing influence of relief by default. It is also possible
for them to be computed without this influence using the planar flag (\fI\-p\fR).
In mountainous areas this can lead to very different results! The user should be
aware that taking into account the shadowing effect of relief can slow
down the speed of computation, especially when the sun altitude is low.
.PP
When considering the shadowing effect, speed and precision of computation
can be controlled by the \fIdistance_step\fR parameter, which defines the sampling density
at which the visibility of a grid cell is computed in the direction of a
path of the solar flow. It also defines the method by which the obstacle\(cqs
altitude is computed. When choosing a \fIdistance_step\fR less than 1.0 (i.e. sampling
points will be computed at \fIdistance_step\fR * cellsize distance), \fIr.sun\fR takes
the altitude from the nearest grid point. Values above 1.0 will use the maximum
altitude value found in the nearest 4 surrounding grid points. The default
value \fIdistance_step\fR=1.0 should give reasonable results for most cases (e.g.
on DEM). The \fIdistance_step\fR value defines a multiplying coefficient for sampling
distance. This basic sampling distance equals to the arithmetic average of
both cell sizes. The reasonable values are in the range 0.5\-1.5.  The values
below 0.5 will decrease and values above 1.0 will increase the computing
speed. Values greater than 2.0 may produce estimates with lower accuracy
in highly dissected relief. The fully shadowed areas are written to the output
maps as zero values. Areas with NULL data are considered as no barrier with
shadowing effect.
.PP
The maps\(cq history files are generated containing the following listed
parameters used in the computation:
.br
\- Solar constant used W.m\-2
.br
\- Extraterrestrial irradiance on a plane perpendicular to the solar beam [W.m\-2]
.br
\- Day of the year
.br
\- Declination [radians]
.br
\- Decimal hour (Alternative 1 only)
.br
\- Sunrise and sunset (min\-max) over a horizontal plane
.br
\- Daylight lengths
.br
\- Geographical latitude (min\-max)
.br
\- Linke turbidity factor (min\-max)
.br
\- Ground albedo (min\-max)
.PP
The user can use a nice shellcript with variable
day to compute radiation for some time interval within the year (e.g. vegetation
or winter period). Elevation, aspect and slope input values should not be
reclassified into coarser categories. This could lead to incorrect results.
.SH  OPTIONS
.PP
Currently, there are two modes of r.sun.
In the first mode it calculates solar incidence angle and solar irradiance
raster maps using the set local time. In the second mode daily sums of solar
irradiation [Wh.m\-2.day\-1] are computed for a specified day.
.SH NOTES
Solar energy is an important input parameter in different models concerning
energy industry, landscape, vegetation, evapotranspiration, snowmelt or remote
sensing. Solar rays incidence angle maps can be effectively used in radiometric
and topographic corrections in mountainous and hilly terrain where very accurate
investigations should be performed.
.PP
The clear\-sky solar radiation model applied in the r.sun is based on the
work undertaken for development of European Solar Radiation Atlas (Scharmer
and Greif 2000, Page et al. 2001, Rigollier 2001). The clear sky model estimates
the global radiation from the sum of its beam, diffuse and reflected components.
The main difference between solar radiation models for inclined surfaces
in Europe is the treatment of the diffuse component. In the European climate
this component is often the largest source of estimation error. Taking into
consideration the existing models and their limitation the European Solar
Radiation Atlas team selected the Muneer (1990) model as it has a sound theoretical
basis and thus more potential for later improvement.
.PP
Details of underlying equations used in this program can be found in the
reference literature cited below or book published by Neteler and Mitasova:
Open Source GIS: A GRASS GIS Approach (published in Kluwer Academic Publishers
in 2002).
.PP
Average monthly values of the Linke turbidity coefficient for a mild climate
in the northern hemisphere (see reference literature for your study area):
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60 lw1 lw60 lw1 lw60 lw1 lw60 lw1 lw60 lw1 lw60 lw1 lw60 lw1 lw60 lw1 lw60 lw1 lw60 lw1 lw60 lw1 lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
Month
T}	 	T{
Jan
T}	 	T{
Feb
T}	 	T{
Mar
T}	 	T{
Apr
T}	 	T{
May
T}	 	T{
Jun
T}	 	T{
Jul
T}	 	T{
Aug
T}	 	T{
Sep
T}	 	T{
Oct
T}	 	T{
Nov
T}	 	T{
Dec
T}	 	T{
annual
T}
.sp 1
T{
mountains
T}	 	T{
1.5
T}	 	T{
1.6
T}	 	T{
1.8
T}	 	T{
1.9
T}	 	T{
2.0
T}	 	T{
2.3
T}	 	T{
2.3
T}	 	T{
2.3
T}	 	T{
2.1
T}	 	T{
1.8
T}	 	T{
1.6
T}	 	T{
1.5
T}	 	T{
1.90
T}
.sp 1
T{
rural
T}	 	T{
2.1
T}	 	T{
2.2
T}	 	T{
2.5
T}	 	T{
2.9
T}	 	T{
3.2
T}	 	T{
3.4
T}	 	T{
3.5
T}	 	T{
3.3
T}	 	T{
2.9
T}	 	T{
2.6
T}	 	T{
2.3
T}	 	T{
2.2
T}	 	T{
2.75
T}
.sp 1
T{
city
T}	 	T{
3.1
T}	 	T{
3.2
T}	 	T{
3.5
T}	 	T{
4.0
T}	 	T{
4.2
T}	 	T{
4.3
T}	 	T{
4.4
T}	 	T{
4.3
T}	 	T{
4.0
T}	 	T{
3.6
T}	 	T{
3.3
T}	 	T{
3.1
T}	 	T{
3.75
T}
.sp 1
T{
industrial
T}	 	T{
4.1
T}	 	T{
4.3
T}	 	T{
4.7
T}	 	T{
5.3
T}	 	T{
5.5
T}	 	T{
5.7
T}	 	T{
5.8
T}	 	T{
5.7
T}	 	T{
5.3
T}	 	T{
4.9
T}	 	T{
4.5
T}	 	T{
4.2
T}	 	T{
5.00
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
Planned improvements include the use of the SOLPOS algorithm for solar
geometry calculations and internal computation of aspect and slope.
.SS Solar time
By default r.sun calculates times as true solar time, whereby solar noon is
always exactly 12 o\(cqclock everywhere in the current region. Depending on where
the zone of interest is located in the related time zone, this may cause
differences of up to an hour, in some cases (like Western Spain) even more.
On top of this, the offset varies during the year according to the Equation
of Time.
.PP
To overcome this problem, the user can use the option \fIcivil_time=<timezone_offset>\fR
in r.sun to make it use real\-world (wall clock) time. For example, for Central
Europe the timezone offset is +1, +2 when daylight saving time is in effect.
.PP
.SS Extraction of shadow maps
A map of shadows can be extracted from the solar incidence angle map
(incidout). Areas with NULL values are shadowed. This will not work
if the \fI\-p\fR flag has been used.
.SS Large maps and out of memory problems
With a large number or columns and rows, \fBr.sun\fR can consume
significant amount of memory. While output raster maps are not
partitionable, the input raster maps are using the \fInpartitions\fR
parameter.
In case of out of memory error (ERROR: G_malloc: out of memory), the
\fInpartitions\fR parameter can be used to run a segmented calculation
which consumes less memory during the computations.
The amount of memory by \fBr.sun\fR is estimated as follows:
.br
.nf
\fC
# without input raster map partitioning:
#  memory requirements: 4 bytes per raster cell
#  rows,cols: rows and columns of current region (find out with g.region)
#  IR: number of input raster maps without horizon maps
#  OR: number of output raster maps
memory_bytes = rows*cols*(IR*4 + horizon_steps + OR*4)
# with input raster map partitioning:
memory_bytes = rows*cols*((IR*4+horizon_steps)/npartitions  + OR*4)
\fR
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
North Carolina example (considering also cast shadows):
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=elevation \-p
# calculate horizon angles (to speed up the subsequent r.sun calculation)
r.horizon elevation=elevation step=30 bufferzone=200 output=horangle \(rs
    maxdistance=5000
# slope + aspect
r.slope.aspect elevation=elevation aspect=aspect.dem slope=slope.dem
# calculate global radiation for day 180 at 2p.m., using r.horizon output
r.sun elevation=elevation horizon_basename=horangle horizon_step=30 \(rs
      aspect=aspect.dem slope=slope.dem glob_rad=global_rad day=180 time=14
# result: output global (total) irradiance/irradiation [W.m\-2] for given day/time
r.univar global_rad
\fR
.fi
.PP
Calculation of the integrated daily irradiation for a region in North\-Carolina
for a given day of the year at 30m resolution. Here day 172 (i.e., 21 June
in non\-leap years):
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=elev_ned_30m \-p
# considering cast shadows
r.sun elevation=elev_ned_30m linke_value=2.5 albedo_value=0.2 day=172 \(rs
      beam_rad=b172 diff_rad=d172 \(rs
      refl_rad=r172 insol_time=it172
d.mon wx0
# show irradiation raster map [Wh.m\-2.day\-1]
d.rast.leg b172
# show insolation time raster map [h]
d.rast.leg it172
\fR
.fi
We can compute the day of year from a specific date in Python:
.br
.nf
\fC
>>> import datetime
>>> datetime.datetime(2014, 6, 21).timetuple().tm_yday
172
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.horizon,
r.slope.aspect,
r.sunhours,
r.sunmask,
g.proj,
r.null,
v.surf.rst
\fR
.SH REFERENCES
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
Hofierka, J., Suri, M. (2002): The solar radiation model for Open source
GIS: implementation and applications. International
GRASS users conference in Trento, Italy, September 2002.
(PDF)
.IP \(bu 4n
Hofierka, J. (1997). Direct solar radiation modelling within an open GIS
environment. Proceedings of JEC\-GI\(cq97 conference in Vienna, Austria, IOS
Press Amsterdam, 575\-584.
.IP \(bu 4n
Jenco, M. (1992). Distribution of direct solar radiation on georelief and
its modelling by means of complex digital model of terrain (in Slovak). Geograficky
casopis, 44, 342\-355.
.IP \(bu 4n
Kasten, F. (1996). The Linke turbidity factor based on improved values of
the integral Rayleigh optical thickness. Solar Energy, 56 (3), 239\-244.
.IP \(bu 4n
Kasten, F., Young, A. T. (1989). Revised optical air mass tables and approximation
formula. Applied Optics, 28, 4735\-4738.
.IP \(bu 4n
Kittler, R., Mikler, J. (1986): Basis of the utilization of solar radiation
(in Slovak). VEDA, Bratislava, p. 150.
.IP \(bu 4n
Krcho, J. (1990). Morfometrická analza a digitálne modely georeliéfu
(Morphometric analysis and digital models of georelief, in Slovak).
VEDA, Bratislava.
.IP \(bu 4n
Muneer, T. (1990). Solar radiation model for Europe. Building services engineering
research and technology, 11, 4, 153\-163.
.IP \(bu 4n
Neteler, M., Mitasova, H. (2002): Open Source GIS: A GRASS GIS Approach, Kluwer
Academic Publishers. (Appendix explains formula;
r.sun script download)
.IP \(bu 4n
Page, J. ed. (1986). Prediction of solar radiation on inclined surfaces. Solar
energy R&D in the European Community, series F \- Solar radiation data,
Dordrecht (D. Reidel), 3, 71, 81\-83.
.IP \(bu 4n
Page, J., Albuisson, M., Wald, L. (2001). The European solar radiation atlas:
a valuable digital tool. Solar Energy, 71, 81\-83.
.IP \(bu 4n
Rigollier, Ch., Bauer, O., Wald, L. (2000). On the clear sky model of the
ESRA \- European Solar radiation Atlas \- with respect to the Heliosat method.
Solar energy, 68, 33\-48.
.IP \(bu 4n
Scharmer, K., Greif, J., eds., (2000). The European solar radiation atlas,
Vol. 2: Database and exploitation software. Paris (Les Presses de l\(cqÉcole
des Mines).
.IP \(bu 4n
Joint Research Centre: GIS solar radiation database for Europe and
Solar radiation and GIS
.RE
.SH AUTHORS
Jaroslav Hofierka, GeoModel, s.r.o. Bratislava, Slovakia
.br
Marcel Suri, GeoModel, s.r.o. Bratislava, Slovakia
.br
Thomas Huld, JRC, Italy
.br
© 2007, Jaroslav Hofierka, Marcel Suri. This program is free software under the GNU General Public License (>=v2)
hofierka@geomodel.sk
suri@geomodel.sk
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
r.sun source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
