.TH r.timestamp 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.timestamp\fR\fR  \- Modifies a timestamp for a raster map.
.br
Print/add/remove a timestamp for a raster map.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, metadata, timestamp, time
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.timestamp\fR
.br
\fBr.timestamp \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.timestamp\fR \fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBdate\fR=\fItimestamp\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of raster map
.IP "\fBdate\fR=\fItimestamp\fR" 4m
.br
Datetime, datetime1/datetime2, or \(cqnone\(cq to remove
.br
Format: \(cq15 jan 1994\(cq (absolute) or \(cq2 years\(cq (relative)
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command has 2 modes of operation. If no \fBdate\fR argument is
supplied, then the current timestamp for the raster map is printed. If
a date argument is specified, then the timestamp for the raster map is
set to the specified date(s). See examples below.
.SH NOTES
Strings containing spaces should be quoted. For specifying a range of
time, the two timestamps should be separated by a forward slash. To
remove the timestamp from a raster map, use \fBdate=none\fR.
.SH TIMESTAMP FORMAT
The timestamp values must use the format as described in the \fIGRASS
Datetime Library\fR. The source tree for this library should have a
description of the format. For convenience, the formats are reproduced
here:
.PP
There are two types of datetime values:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fIabsolute\fR and
.IP \(bu 4n
\fIrelative\fR.
.RE
Absolute values specify exact dates and/or times. Relative values
specify a span of time.
.SS Absolute
The general format for absolute values is:
.br
.nf
\fC
  day month year [bc] hour:minute:seconds timezone
	     day is 1\-31
	     month is jan,feb,...,dec
	     year is 4 digit year
	     [bc] if present, indicates dates is BC
	     hour is 0\-23 (24 hour clock)
	     minute is 0\-59
	     second is 0\-59.9999 (fractions of second allowed)
	     timezone is +hhmm or \-hhmm (eg, \-0600)
\fR
.fi
Some parts can be missing, for example
.br
.nf
\fC
	     1994 [bc]
	     Jan 1994 [bc]
	     15 jan 1000 [bc]
	     15 jan 1994 [bc] 10 [+0000]
	     15 jan 1994 [bc] 10:00 [+0100]
	     15 jan 1994 [bc] 10:00:23.34 [\-0500]
\fR
.fi
.SS Relative
There are two types of relative datetime values, year\-month and
day\-second. The formats are:
.br
.nf
\fC
	     [\-] # years # months
	     [\-] # days # hours # minutes # seconds
\fR
.fi
The words years, months, days, hours, minutes, seconds are literal
words, and the # are the numeric values. Examples:
.br
.nf
\fC
	     2 years
	     5 months
	     2 years 5 months
	     100 days
	     15 hours 25 minutes 35.34 seconds
	     100 days 25 minutes
	     1000 hours 35.34 seconds
\fR
.fi
The following are \fIillegal\fR because it mixes year\-month and
day\-second (because the number of days in a month or in a year vary):
.br
.nf
\fC
	     3 months 15 days
	     3 years 10 days
\fR
.fi
.SH EXAMPLES
Prints the timestamp for the \(dqsoils\(dq raster map. If there is no
timestamp for \(dqsoils\(dq, nothing is printed. If there is a timestamp,
one or two time strings are printed, depending on if the timestamp for
the map consists of a single date or two dates (ie start and end
dates).
.br
.nf
\fC
r.timestamp map=soils
\fR
.fi
Sets the timestamp for \(dqsoils\(dq to the single date \(dq15 sep 1987\(dq.
.br
.nf
\fC
r.timestamp map=soils date=\(cq15 sep 1987\(cq
\fR
.fi
Sets the timestamp for \(dqsoils\(dq to have the start date \(dq15 sep 1987\(dq
and the end date \(dq20 feb 1988\(dq.
.br
.nf
\fC
r.timestamp map=soils date=\(cq15 sep 1987/20 feb 1988\(cq
\fR
.fi
Sets the timestamp for \(dqsoils\(dq to have the start date \(dq18 feb 2005
10:30:00\(dq and the end date \(dq20 jul 2007 20:30:00\(dq.
.br
.nf
\fC
r.timestamp map=soils date=\(cq18 feb 2005 10:30:00/20 jul 2007 20:30:00\(cq
\fR
.fi
Removes the timestamp for the \(dqsoils\(dq raster map.
.br
.nf
\fC
r.timestamp map=soils date=none
\fR
.fi
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
Spaces in the timestamp value are required.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.info,
r3.timestamp,
v.timestamp
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Shapiro, U.S.Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r.timestamp source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
