.TH r.topmodel 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.topmodel\fR\fR  \- Simulates TOPMODEL which is a physically based hydrologic model.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, hydrology, model
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.topmodel\fR
.br
\fBr.topmodel \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.topmodel\fR [\-\fBp\fR] \fBparameters\fR=\fIname\fR \fBtopidxstats\fR=\fIname\fR \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBtimestep\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBtopidxclass\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBtopidx\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBntopidxclasses\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBouttopidxstats\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-p\fR" 4m
.br
Preprocess only and stop after generating outtopidxstats
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBparameters\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input TOPMODEL parameters file
.IP "\fBtopidxstats\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input topographic index statistics file
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input rainfall and potential evapotranspiration data file
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output file
.IP "\fBtimestep\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Time step
.br
Generate output for this time step
.IP "\fBtopidxclass\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Topographic index class
.br
Generate output for this topographic index class
.IP "\fBtopidx\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input topographic index raster map
.br
Must be clipped to the catchment boundary. Used for generating outtopidxstats
.IP "\fBntopidxclasses\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Number of topographic index classes
.br
Used for generating outtopidxstats
.br
Default: \fI30\fR
.IP "\fBouttopidxstats\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output topographic index statistics file
.br
Requires topidx and ntopidxclasses
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.topmodel\fR simulates TOPMODEL which is a physically based
hydrologic model.
.SS Parameters description
.IP "\fBparameters\fR" 4m
.br
This file contains TOPMODEL parameters that describe the study area. Any lines
starting with a # sign or empty lines are ignored.
.br
.nf
\fC
# Subcatchment name
Subcatchment 1
################################################################################
# A [m^2]: Total subcatchment area
3.31697E+07
################################################################################
# qs0 [m/h]: Initial subsurface flow per unit area
#		\(dqThe first streamflow input is assumed to represent
#		 only the subsurface flow contribution in the watershed.\(dq
#								\- Liaw (1988)
0.000075
# lnTe [ln(m^2/h)]: Areal average of the soil surface transmissivity
4.
# m [m]: Parameter controlling the decline rate of transmissivity
# See Beven and Kirkby (1979)
0.0125
# Sr0 [m]: Initial root zone storage deficit
0.0025
# Srmax [m]: Maximum root zone storage deficit
0.041
# td [h]: Unsaturated zone time delay per unit storage deficit if greater than 0
#  OR
# \-alpha: Effective vertical hydraulic gradient if not greater than 0.
#
# For example, \-10 means alpha=10.
60.
# vch [m/h]: Main channel routing velocity
20000.
# vr [m/h]: Internal subcatchment routing velocity
10000.
################################################################################
# infex: Calculate infiltration excess if not zero (integer)
0
# K0 [m/h]: Surface hydraulic conductivity
2.
# psi [m]: Wetting front suction
0.1
# dtheta: Water content change across the wetting front
0.1
################################################################################
# d [m]: Distance from the catchment outlet
#		The first value should be the mainstream distance from
#		the subcatchment outlet to the catchment outlet.
# Ad_r:  Cumulative area ratio of subcatchment (0.0 to 1.0)
#		The first and last values should be 0 and 1, respectively.
#   d  Ad_r
    0   0.0
 1000   0.2
 2000   0.4
 3000   0.6
 4000   0.8
 5000   1.0
\fR
.fi
.IP "\fBinput\fR" 4m
.IP " " 4m
.br
This file contains observed weather data.
.br
.nf
\fC
# dt [h]: Time step
24
################################################################################
# R [m/dt]:  Rainfall
# Ep [m/dt]: Potential evapotranspiration
# R             Ep
0.000033        0.000000
0.000053        0.011938
0.004821        0.000000
\&.
\&.
\&.
\fR
.fi
.IP "\fBtimestep\fR" 4m
.br
If a time step is specified, output will be generated for the specific time
step in addition to the summary and total flows at the outlet. This parameter
can be combined with \fBtopidxclass\fR to specify a time step and topographic index
class at the same time. If no \fBtopidxclass\fR is given, output will be generated
for all the topographic index classes.
.IP "\fBtoptopidxclass\fR" 4m
.br
If a topographic index class is specified, output will be generated for the
given topographic index class. This parameter can be combined with \fBtimestep\fR. If
no \fBtimestep\fR is given, output will be generated for all the time steps.
.IP "\fBtopidx\fR, \fBntoptopidxclasses\fR, \fBouttoptopidxstats\fR" 4m
.br
The \fBtopidx\fR map can optionally be used for creating a new topographic
index statistics file. This map has to be already clipped to the catchment
boundary. The entire range of topographic index values will be divided into
\fBntoptopidxclasses\fR and the area ratio of each class will be reported in the
\fBouttoptopidxstats\fR file. These three parameters can be omitted unless a new
\fBtopidxstats\fR file needs to be created.
.SH REFERENCES
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
Beven, K. J., 1984. Infiltration into a class of vertically non\-uniform
soils. Hydrological Sciences Journal 29 (4), 425\-434.
.IP \(bu 4n
Beven, K. J., Kirkby, M. J., 1979. A physically based, variable
contributing area model of basin hydrology. Hydrological Sciences Bulletin 24
(1), 43\-69.
.IP \(bu 4n
Beven K. J., R. Lamb, P. Quinn, R. Romanowicz, and J. Freer, 1995.
TOPMODEL, in V.P. Singh (Ed.). Computer Models of Watershed Hydrology. Water
Resources Publications.
.IP \(bu 4n
Cho, H., 2000. GIS Hydrological Modeling System by Using Programming
Interface of GRASS. Master\(cqs Thesis, Department of Civil Engineering,
Kyungpook National University, Korea.
.IP \(bu 4n
Liaw, S. C., 1988. Streamflow Simulation Using a Physically Based
Hydrologic Model in Humid Forested Watersheds. Dissertation, Colorado State
University, CO. p163.
.IP \(bu 4n
Morel\-Seytoux, H. J., Khanji, J., 1974. Derivation of an equation of
infiltration. Water Resources Research 10 (4), 795\-800.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.fill.dir,
r.mapcalc,
r.topidx
\fR
.br
How to run r.topmodel
.SH AUTHORS
Huidae Cho,
Hydro Laboratory, Kyungpook National University, South Korea
.PP
Based on TMOD9502.FOR by Keith Beven.
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
r.topmodel source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
