.TH r.to.rast3 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.to.rast3\fR\fR  \- Converts 2D raster map slices to one 3D raster volume map.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, conversion, voxel
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.to.rast3\fR
.br
\fBr.to.rast3 \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.to.rast3\fR [\-\fBm\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR,...] \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBtilesize\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-m\fR" 4m
.br
Use 3D raster mask (if exists) with output map
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname[,\fIname\fR,...]\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
2D raster maps which represent the slices
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output 3D raster map
.IP "\fBtilesize\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
The maximum tile size in kilo bytes. Default is 32KB.
.br
Default: \fI32\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
Converts 2D raster map(s) into one raster3D map. It is important to
properly set the 3D region settings, especially number or layers and
depth of layers. If the 2D and 3D region settings are different,
the 2D resolution will be adjusted to the 3D resolution.
.br
.TS
expand;
lw60.
T{
\fIHow r.to.rast3 works\fR
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.SH NOTES
Every 2D raster map is copied as one slice to the raster3D map. Slices
are counted from bottom to the top, so the bottom slice has to be number 1.
.br
.br
If less number of 2D raster maps are provided than defined depths, the
last given 2D map is used to fill up the remaining raster3D slices to
the top.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS EXAMPLE 1
This example shows how to convert 6 maps into one 3D map with 6 layers.
.br
.br
.nf
\fC
# Mapset data in Location slovakia3d
g.region raster=prec_1,prec_2,prec_3,prec_4,prec_5,prec_6 \-p
g.region b=0 t=600 tbres=100 res3=100 \-p3
r.to.rast3 input=prec_1,prec_2,prec_3,prec_4,prec_5,prec_6 output=new_3dmap
\fR
.fi
.SS EXAMPLE 2
This example shows how to convert 3 maps into one 3D map with 6 layers.
.br
.br
.nf
\fC
# Mapset data in Location slovakia3d
g.region b=0 t=600 tbres=100 res3=100 \-p3
r.to.rast3 input=prec_1,prec_2,prec_3 output=new_3dmap
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
g.region,
r3.to.rast,
r.to.rast3elev
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Soeren Gebbert
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r.to.rast3 source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
