.TH r.transect 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.transect\fR\fR  \- Outputs raster map layer values lying along user defined transect line(s).
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, profile, transect
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.transect\fR
.br
\fBr.transect \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.transect\fR [\-\fBg\fR] \fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR \fBline\fR=\fIeast,north,azimuth,distance\fR[,\fIeast,north,azimuth,distance\fR,...]  [\fBnull_value\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-g\fR" 4m
.br
Output easting and northing in first two columns of four column output
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Raster map to be queried
.IP "\fBline\fR=\fIeast,north,azimuth,distance[,\fIeast,north,azimuth,distance\fR,...]\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Transect definition
.IP "\fBnull_value\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
String representing NULL value
.br
Default: \fI*\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
This program outputs, in ASCII, the values in a raster map
which lie along one or more user\-defined transect lines.
The transects are described by their starting coordinates,
azimuth, and distance.
.PP
The \fBline\fR parameter is a definition of (each) transect line,
specified by the geographic coordinates of its starting point (\fIeasting,
northing\fR), the angle and direction of its travel (\fIazimuth\fR),
and its distance (\fIdistance\fR).
.PP
The \fIazimuth\fR is an angle, in degrees, measured to
the east of north.  The \fIdistance\fR is in map units
(meters for a metered database, like UTM).
.PP
The \fBnull\fR parameter can optionally be set to change the character
string representing null values.
.SH NOTES
This program is a front\-end to the \fI
r.profile\fR program.  It simply converts the
azimuth and distance to an ending coordinate and then runs \fI
r.profile\fR.
There once were \fBwidth=\fR and \fBresult=\fR\fIraw|median|average\fR
options which are not currently implemented.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIr.profile\fR,
\fIwxGUI profile tool\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Shapiro, U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r.transect source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
