.TH r.walk 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr.walk\fR\fR  \- Creates a raster map showing the anisotropic cumulative cost of moving between different geographic locations on an input raster map whose cell category values represent cost.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster, cost surface, cumulative costs, cost allocation
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr.walk\fR
.br
\fBr.walk \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr.walk\fR [\-\fBknrib\fR] \fBelevation\fR=\fIname\fR \fBfriction\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBsolver\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBnearest\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBoutdir\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBstart_points\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBstop_points\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBstart_raster\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBstart_coordinates\fR=\fIeast,north\fR[,\fIeast,north\fR,...]]   [\fBstop_coordinates\fR=\fIeast,north\fR[,\fIeast,north\fR,...]]   [\fBmax_cost\fR=\fIvalue\fR]   [\fBnull_cost\fR=\fIvalue\fR]   [\fBmemory\fR=\fImemory in MB\fR]   [\fBwalk_coeff\fR=\fIa,b,c,d\fR]   [\fBlambda\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBslope_factor\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-k\fR" 4m
.br
Use the \(cqKnight\(cqs move\(cq; slower, but more accurate
.IP "\fB\-n\fR" 4m
.br
Keep null values in output raster map
.IP "\fB\-r\fR" 4m
.br
Start with values in raster map
.IP "\fB\-i\fR" 4m
.br
Print info about disk space and memory requirements and exit
.IP "\fB\-b\fR" 4m
.br
Create bitmask encoded directions
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBelevation\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input elevation raster map
.IP "\fBfriction\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map containing friction costs
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map to contain walking costs
.IP "\fBsolver\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input raster map solving equal costs
.br
Helper variable to pick a direction if two directions have equal cumulative costs (smaller is better)
.IP "\fBnearest\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map with nearest start point
.IP "\fBoutdir\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map to contain movement directions
.IP "\fBstart_points\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of starting vector points map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBstop_points\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of stopping vector points map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBstart_raster\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of starting raster points map
.IP "\fBstart_coordinates\fR=\fIeast,north[,\fIeast,north\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Coordinates of starting point(s) (E,N)
.IP "\fBstop_coordinates\fR=\fIeast,north[,\fIeast,north\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Coordinates of stopping point(s) (E,N)
.IP "\fBmax_cost\fR=\fIvalue\fR" 4m
.br
Maximum cumulative cost
.br
Default: \fI0\fR
.IP "\fBnull_cost\fR=\fIvalue\fR" 4m
.br
Cost assigned to null cells. By default, null cells are excluded
.IP "\fBmemory\fR=\fImemory in MB\fR" 4m
.br
Maximum memory to be used (in MB)
.br
Cache size for raster rows
.br
Default: \fI300\fR
.IP "\fBwalk_coeff\fR=\fIa,b,c,d\fR" 4m
.br
Coefficients for walking energy formula parameters a,b,c,d
.br
Default: \fI0.72,6.0,1.9998,\-1.9998\fR
.IP "\fBlambda\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Lambda coefficients for combining walking energy and friction cost
.br
Default: \fI1.0\fR
.IP "\fBslope_factor\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Slope factor determines travel energy cost per height step
.br
Default: \fI\-0.2125\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr.walk\fR computes anisotropic cumulative cost of moving between
different geographic locations on an input elevation raster map whose
cell category values represent elevation combined with an input raster
map layer whose cell values represent friction cost.
.PP
\fIr.walk\fR outputs 1) a raster map showing the lowest
cumulative cost (time) of moving between each cell and the user\-specified
starting points and 2) a second raster map showing the movement
direction to the next cell on the path back to the start point (see
Movement Direction). It uses an input elevation
raster map whose cell category values represent elevation,
combined with a second input raster map whose cell values
represent friction costs.
.PP
This function is similar to \fIr.cost\fR,
but in addition to a friction map, it considers an anisotropic travel
time due to the different walking speed associated with downhill and
uphill movements.
.SH NOTES
.PP
The formula from Aitken 1977/Langmuir 1984 (based on Naismith\(cqs rule
for walking times) has been used to estimate the cost parameters of
specific slope intervals:
.br
.nf
\fC
T = a*delta_S + b*delta_H_uphill + c*delta_H_moderate_downhill + d*delta_H_steep_downhill
\fR
.fi
where:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
T is time of movement in seconds,
.IP \(bu 4n
delta S is the horizontal distance covered in meters,
.IP \(bu 4n
delta H is the altitude difference in meters.
.RE
.PP
The a, b, c, d \fBwalk_coeff\fR parameters take in account
movement speed in the different conditions and are linked to:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
a: time in seconds it takes to walk for 1 meter a flat surface (1/walking speed)
.IP \(bu 4n
b: additional walking time in seconds, per meter of elevation gain
on uphill slopes
.IP \(bu 4n
c: additional walking time in seconds, per meter of elevation loss
on moderate downhill slopes (use positive value for decreasing cost)
.IP \(bu 4n
d: additional walking time in seconds, per meter of elevation loss
on steep downhill slopes (use negative value for increasing cost)
.RE
It has been proved that moving downhill is favourable up to a specific
slope value threshold, after that it becomes unfavourable. The default
slope value threshold (\fBslope_factor\fR) is \-0.2125, corresponding
to tan(\-12), calibrated on human behaviour (>5 and <12 degrees:
moderate downhill; >12 degrees: steep downhill). The default values
for a, b, c, d \fBwalk_coeff\fR parameters are those proposed by
Langmuir (0.72, 6.0, 1.9998, \-1.9998), based on man walking effort in
standard conditions.
.PP
The \fBfriction\fR cost parameter represents a time penalty in seconds
of additional walking time to cross 1 meter distance.
.PP
The \fBlambda\fR parameter is a dimensionless scaling factor of the friction cost:
.br
.nf
\fC
total cost = movement time cost + lambda * friction costs * delta_S
\fR
.fi
.PP
For a more accurate result, the \(dqknight\(cqs move\(dq option can be used
(although it is more time consuming). In the diagram below, the center
location (O) represents a grid cell from which cumulative distances
are calculated. Those neighbours marked with an x are always
considered for cumulative cost updates. With the \(dqknight\(cqs move\(dq
option, the neighbours marked with a K are also considered.
.br
.nf
\fC
  K   K
K x x x K
  x O x
K x x x K
  K   K
\fR
.fi
.PP
The minimum cumulative costs are computed using Dijkstra\(cqs
algorithm, that find an optimum solution (for more details see
\fIr.cost\fR, that uses the same algorithm).
.SH Movement Direction
.PP
The movement direction surface is created to record the sequence of
movements that created the cost accumulation surface. This movement
direction surface can be used by \fIr.path\fR
to recover a path from an end point back to the start point.
The direction of each cell points towards the next cell.
The directions are recorded as degrees CCW from East:
.br
.nf
\fC
       112.5      67.5         i.e. a cell with the value 135
157.5  135   90   45   22.5    means the next cell is to the north\-west
       180   x   360
202.5  225  270  315  337.5
       247.5     292.5
\fR
.fi
.PP
Once \fIr.walk\fR computes the cumulative cost map as a linear
combination of friction cost (from friction map) and the altitude and
distance covered (from the digital elevation model), the associated
movement direction map can be used by \fIr.path\fR
to find the minimum cost path.
.PP
\fIr.walk\fR, like most all GRASS raster programs, is also made to
be run on maps larger that can fit in available computer memory. As the
algorithm works through the dynamic list of cells it can move almost
randomly around the entire area. \fIr.walk\fR divides the entire
area into a number of pieces and swaps these pieces in and out of
memory (to and from disk) as needed. This provides a virtual memory
approach optimally designed for 2\-D raster maps. The amount of memory
to be used by \fIr.walk\fR can be controlled with the \fBmemory\fR
option, default is 300 MB. For systems with less memory this value will
have to be set to a lower value.
.SH EXAMPLES
We compute a map showing how far a lost person could get from the
point where he or she was last seen
while taking into account the topography and landcover.
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region swwake_30m \-p
# create friction map based on land cover
r.recode landclass96 out=friction rules=\- << EOF
1:3:0.1:0.1
4:5:10.:10.
6:6:1000.0:1000.0
7:7:0.3:0.3
EOF
r.walk \-k elevation=elev_ned_30m friction=friction output=walkcost \(rs
    start_coordinates=635576,216485 lambda=0.5 max=10000
# compute contours on the cost surface to better understand
# how far the person can get in certain time (1000 is in seconds)
r.contour walkcost output=walkcost step=1000
\fR
.fi
.SH REFERENCES
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
Aitken, R. 1977. Wilderness areas in Scotland. Unpublished Ph.D. thesis.
University of Aberdeen.
.IP \(bu 4n
Steno Fontanari, University of Trento, Italy, Ingegneria per l\(cqAmbiente e
il Territorio, 2000\-2001.
Svilluppo di metodologie GIS per la determinazione dell\(cqaccessibilità
territoriale come supporto alle decisioni nella gestione ambientale.
.IP \(bu 4n
Langmuir, E. 1984. Mountaincraft and leadership. The Scottish
Sports Council/MLTB. Cordee, Leicester.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.cost,
r.path,
r.in.ascii,
r.mapcalc,
r.recode,
r.out.ascii
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
\fBBased on r.cost written by :\fR
.br
Antony Awaida, Intelligent Engineering, Systems Laboratory, M.I.T.
.br
James Westervelt, U.S.Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory
.br
Updated for Grass 5 by Pierre de Mouveaux (pmx@audiovu.com)
.PP
\fBInitial version of r.walk:\fR
.br
Steno Fontanari, 2002
.PP
\fBCurrent version of r.walk:\fR
.br
Franceschetti Simone, Sorrentino Diego, Mussi Fabiano and Pasolli Mattia
.br
Correction by: Fontanari Steno, Napolitano Maurizio and  Flor Roberto
.br
In collaboration with: Franchi Matteo, Vaglia Beatrice, Bartucca Luisa, Fava Valentina and Tolotti Mathias, 2004
.PP
\fBUpdated for GRASS 6.1:\fR
.br
Roberto Flor and Markus Neteler
.PP
\fBUpdated for GRASS GIS 7:\fR
.br
Markus Metz
.br
Multiple path directions sponsored by mundialis
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
r.walk source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
