.TH r3.in.ascii 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr3.in.ascii\fR\fR  \- Converts a 3D ASCII raster text file into a (binary) 3D raster map.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster3d, import, voxel, conversion, ASCII
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr3.in.ascii\fR
.br
\fBr3.in.ascii \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr3.in.ascii\fR \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBnull_value\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBtype\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBprecision\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBcompression\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBtiledimension\fR=\fIXxYxZ\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input file to be imported
.br
\(cq\-\(cq for standard input
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output 3D raster map
.IP "\fBnull_value\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
String representing NULL value data cell (use \(cqnone\(cq if no such value)
.br
Default: \fI*\fR
.IP "\fBtype\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Data type used in the output raster3d map
.br
Options: \fIdefault, double, float\fR
.br
Default: \fIdefault\fR
.IP "\fBprecision\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Number of digits used as mantissa in the internal map storage, 0 \-23 for float, 0 \- 52 for double, max or default
.br
Default: \fIdefault\fR
.IP "\fBcompression\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
The compression method used in the output raster3d map
.br
Options: \fIdefault, zip, none\fR
.br
Default: \fIdefault\fR
.IP "\fBtiledimension\fR=\fIXxYxZ\fR" 4m
.br
The dimensions of the tiles used in the output raster3d map (XxYxZ or default: 16x16x8)
.br
Default: \fIdefault\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr3.in.ascii\fR allows a user to create a (binary) GRASS 3D raster map
layer from a 3D ASCII raster input file.
.PP
The \fItiledimension\fR parameter defines the dimension of the tiles
used in the output file. The format is: XxYxZ
.PP
The \fInv\fR parameter specifies which value to convert to NULL\-value.
If the specified value is \fInone\fR, no conversion is performed.
Default is \fInone\fR.
.SH NOTES
The data is automatically imported into the correct internal coordinate system,
that is visualized in the following picture, independently from the specified
ordering in the ASCII input file:
.br
.TS
expand;
lw60.
T{
\fIThe volume coordinate system and tile layout of the imported voxel map\fR
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.SH NOTES
The format of the 3D ASCII file:
.br
.nf
\fC
version: \fI\(dqgrass7\(dq\fR
order:   \fI\(dqnsbt\(dq or \(dqnstb\(dq or \(dqsnbt\(dq or \(dqsntb\(dq\fR
north:   \fIfloating point\fR
south:   \fIfloating point\fR
east:    \fIfloating point\fR
west:    \fIfloating point\fR
top:     \fIfloating point\fR
bottom:  \fIfloating point\fR
rows:    \fIinteger\fR
cols:    \fIinteger\fR
levels:  \fIinteger\fR
\fR
.fi
The version and order option have been introduced in GRASS 7 in June 2011.
The version option is self explaining. The order option specifies the row
and depth order of the data in the input file.
The supported row/depth ordering is documented in the \fIr3.out.ascii\fR
manual page. The order of the data in the input file does not specify the
data order in the generated output 3D raster map which is in any case
\fInorth \-> south, west \-> east, bottom \-> top\fR order.
So dependent on the order information the data is automatically imported
into the correct internal coordinate system.
.PP
The version and order options are not mandatory. In case no version and
order option is specified, the default GRASS 6 ASCII format is assumed.
.PP
This header is followed by the cell values in \fIfloating point\fR format
organized in rows with constant \fIcol\fR and \fIlevel\fR coordinate.
The rows are organized by constant \fIlevel\fR coordinate. Individual cell
values are separated by \fIspace\fR or \fICR\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
4x3x2 sample. Note in case no specific ordering is specified in the input
file the upper\-left (NW) corner of the bottom level comes first. The according
order option is: nsbt for north \-> south, bottom \-> top ordering. This is
identical with \fIr.in.ascii\fR for single level data. So the y coordinate
is 0 at the northern edge.
north: 3.0
.br
south: 0.0
.br
east: 4.0
.br
west: 0.0
.br
top: 2.0
.br
bottom: 0.0
.br
rows: 3
.br
cols: 4
.br
levels: 2
.br
w111x1,y1,z1  w211x2,y1,z1  w311x3,y1,z1  w411x4,y1,z1
.br
w121x1,y2,z1  w221x2,y2,z1  w321x3,y2,z1  w421x4,y2,z1
.br
w131x1,y3,z1  w231x2,y3,z1  w331x3,y3,z1  w431x4,y3,z1
.br
w112x1,y1,z2  w212x2,y1,z2  w312x3,y1,z2  w412x4,y1,z2
.br
w122x1,y2,z2  w222x2,y2,z2  w322x3,y2,z2  w422x4,y2,z2
.br
w132x1,y3,z2  w232x2,y3,z2  w332x3,y3,z2  w432x4,y3,z2
.br
.PP
Note that unit tests for \fIr3.in.ascii\fR are implemented in the
\fItest.r3.out.ascii.sh\fR script located in the
\fIr3.out.ascii\fR directory.
.SH EXAMPLES
Please refer to the detailed examples in
r3.out.ascii.
.SH AUTHORS
Roman Waupotitsch, Michael Shapiro,
Helena Mitasova, Bill Brown, Lubos Mitas, Jaro Hofierka, Sören Gebbert
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.in.ascii,
r3.out.ascii,
v.to.rast3,
g.region
\fR
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
r3.in.ascii source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
3D raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
