.TH r3.in.xyz 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr3.in.xyz.py\fR\fR  \- Create a 3D raster map from an assemblage of many coordinates using univariate statistics
.SH KEYWORDS
raster3d, import, voxel, LIDAR, statistics, conversion, aggregation, binning
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr3.in.xyz.py\fR
.br
\fBr3.in.xyz.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr3.in.xyz.py\fR [\-\fBsgi\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBmethod\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBtype\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBseparator\fR=\fIcharacter\fR]   [\fBx\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBy\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBz\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBvalue_column\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBvrange\fR=\fImin,max\fR]   [\fBvscale\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBpercent\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBpth\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBtrim\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBworkers\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-s\fR" 4m
.br
Scan data file for extent then exit
.IP "\fB\-g\fR" 4m
.br
In scan mode, print using shell script style
.IP "\fB\-i\fR" 4m
.br
Ignore broken lines
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
ASCII file containing input data
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output raster map
.IP "\fBmethod\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Statistic to use for raster values
.br
Options: \fIn, min, max, range, sum, mean, stddev, variance, coeff_var, median, percentile, skewness, trimmean\fR
.br
Default: \fImean\fR
.IP "\fBtype\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Storage type for resultant raster map
.br
Options: \fIfloat, double\fR
.br
Default: \fIfloat\fR
.IP "\fBseparator\fR=\fIcharacter\fR" 4m
.br
Field separator
.br
Special characters: pipe, comma, space, tab, newline
.br
Default: \fIpipe\fR
.IP "\fBx\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Column number of x coordinates in input file (first column is 1)
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBy\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Column number of y coordinates in input file
.br
Default: \fI2\fR
.IP "\fBz\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Column number of z coordinates in input file
.br
Default: \fI3\fR
.IP "\fBvalue_column\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Column number of data values in input file
.br
If not given or set to 0, the data points\(cq z\-values are used
.br
Default: \fI0\fR
.IP "\fBvrange\fR=\fImin,max\fR" 4m
.br
Filter range for value column data (min,max)
.IP "\fBvscale\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Scaling factor to apply to value column data
.br
Default: \fI1.0\fR
.IP "\fBpercent\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Percent of map to keep in memory
.br
Options: \fI1\-100\fR
.br
Default: \fI100\fR
.IP "\fBpth\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
pth percentile of the values
.br
Options: \fI1\-100\fR
.IP "\fBtrim\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Discard <trim> percent of the smallest and <trim> percent of the largest observations
.br
Options: \fI0\-50\fR
.IP "\fBworkers\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Number of parallel processes to launch
.br
Options: \fI1\-256\fR
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr3.in.xyz\fR imports sparse XYZ data from an ASCII file into
a 3D raster map (voxels). It does this by running the \fIr.in.xyz\fR
module multiple times for different z\-ranges and then assembling the
slices with \fIr.to.rast3\fR.
.PP
See the r.in.xyz help page for general
parameter usage and tips.
.PP
The map is created using the rows, columns, and depths set by
current region settings. Be sure to check and adjust these with
the \fIg.region\fR module before performing the import.
.PP
You may either use the z\-value as the data value for the voxel
(e.g. with the \(cqn\(cq statistic), or alternately scan another
column for the data values to bin into the voxels. This alternate
data column can be both filtered by range and have a scaling
factor applied to it.
.SH NOTES
The 2D and 3D horizontal region resolutions must match. See the
EXAMPLES section below.
.PP
Unlike \fIr.in.xyz\fR, reading from stdin and z\-scaling are not
possible. Filtering by z\-range is accomplished by setting the 3D region.
.PP
To enable parallel processing support, set the \fBworkers=\fR option
to match the number of CPUs or CPU\-cores available on your system.
Alternatively, the WORKERS environment variable can be set
to the number of concurrent processes desired.
.PP
Points falling exactly on a vertical bound will belong to the depth
band below them, except for points exactly on the top bound, which will
belong to the top\-most slice.
.PP
The script is expected to be nearly as efficient as if it was fully
written in C.
.SH EXAMPLE
Using the Serpent Mound dataset. (see the
GRASS LiDAR wiki page)
.br
.nf
\fC
  #scan dataset for extent:
  r3.in.xyz \-s in=Serpent_Mound_Model_LAS_Data.txt out=dummy \(rs
     x=1 y=2 z=3 separator=space
  # set the 2D and 3D regions:
  g.region n=4323641.57 s=4320942.61 w=289020.90 e=290106.02 res=1 \-a
  g.region b=166 t=216 res3=1 tbres=5 \-3 \-p
  r3.in.xyz in=Serpent_Mound_Model_LAS_Data.txt out=serpent3D \(rs
     method=mean x=1 y=2 z=3 separator=space type=float
\fR
.fi
The same, but aggregate and store backscatter strength from column 5
into voxels in instead of the z\-value:
.br
.nf
\fC
  r3.in.xyz in=Serpent_Mound_Model_LAS_Data.txt out=serpent3D.bakscat \(rs
     method=mean x=1 y=2 z=3 val=5 separator=space type=float
\fR
.fi
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
\fIr.to.rast3\fR always creates a double output map
regardless of input.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
g.region,
r.in.xyz,
r.to.rast3
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Hamish Bowman
.br
\fIDunedin, New Zealand\fR
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r3.in.xyz source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
3D raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
