.TH r3.neighbors 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr3.neighbors\fR\fR  \- Makes each voxel value a function of the values assigned to the voxels around it, and stores new voxel values in an output 3D raster map
.SH KEYWORDS
raster3d, algebra, voxel, statistics, aggregation, neighbor, focal statistics, filter
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr3.neighbors\fR
.br
\fBr3.neighbors \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr3.neighbors\fR \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBmethod\fR=\fIstring\fR  [\fBquantile\fR=\fIfloat\fR]  \fBwindow\fR=\fIx,y,z\fR  [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input 3D raster map
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output 3D raster map
.IP "\fBmethod\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Aggregate operation
.br
Options: \fIaverage, median, mode, minimum, maximum, range, stddev, sum, count, variance, diversity, interspersion, quart1, quart3, perc90, quantile\fR
.IP "\fBquantile\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Quantile to calculate for method=quantile
.br
Options: \fI0.0\-1.0\fR
.IP "\fBwindow\fR=\fIx,y,z\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
The size of the window in x, y and z direction, values must be odd integer numbers, eg: 3,3,3
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fI\fBr3.neighbors\fR\fR looks at each voxel in a 3D raster input
map layer, and examines the values assigned to the
voxel in a user\-defined \(dqneighborhood\(dq around it.  It
outputs a new 3D raster map in which each voxel is
assigned a value that is a (user\-specified)
function of the values in that voxel\(cqs neighborhood.  For
example, each voxel in the output map might be assigned a
value equal to the average of the values
appearing in its 3 x 3 x 3 voxel \(dqneighborhood\(dq in the input
map layer.
.SS OPTIONS
The user must specify the names of the 3D raster map layers to
be used for \fBinput\fR and \fBoutput\fR, the
\fBmethod\fR used to analyze neighborhood
values (i.e., the neighborhood function or operation to be
performed), and the moving \fBwindow\fR of the neighborhood.
.PP
\fINeighborhood Operation Methods:\fR
The \fBneighborhood\fR operators determine what new
value a center voxel in a neighborhood will have after examining
values inside its neighboring voxels.
Each voxel in a 3D raster map layer becomes the center voxel of a neighborhood
as the neighborhood window moves from voxel to voxel throughout the map layer.
\fI\fBr3.neighbors\fR\fR can perform the following operations:
.PP
.IP "\fBaverage\fR   " 4m
.br
The average value within the neighborhood.
.IP "\fBmedian\fR   " 4m
.br
The value found half\-way through a list of the
neighborhood\(cqs values,
when these are ranged in numerical order.
.IP "\fBmode\fR   " 4m
.br
The most frequently occurring value in the neighborhood.
.IP "\fBminimum\fR   " 4m
.br
The minimum value within the neighborhood.
.IP "\fBmaximum\fR   " 4m
.br
The maximum value within the neighborhood.
.IP "\fBrange\fR  " 4m
.br
The range value within the neighborhood.
.IP "\fBstddev\fR   " 4m
.br
The statistical standard deviation of values
within the neighborhood.
.IP "\fBsum\fR   " 4m
.br
The sum of values within the neighborhood.
.IP "\fBvariance\fR   " 4m
.br
The statistical variance of values
within the neighborhood.
.IP "\fBdiversity\fR   " 4m
.br
The number of different values within the neighborhood.
.IP "\fBinterspersion\fR   " 4m
.br
The percentage of voxels containing values which differ from the values
assigned to the center voxel in the neighborhood, plus 1.
.PP
.br
\fINeighborhood Size:\fR
The neighborhood moving \fBwindow\fR specifies which voxel surrounding any given
voxel fall into the neighborhood for that voxel.
The \fBwindow\fR must be three comma separated odd integers. The dimension order is: x,y,z.
For example: the parameter window=3,3,3 specifies a moving window (a cube) with 27 voxel.
.PP
.SH NOTES
The \fI\fBr3.neighbors\fR\fR program works in the current geographic region.
It is recommended, but not required,
that the 3D resolution of the geographic region be the same as that
of the 3D raster map layer.
.PP
\fI\fBr3.neighbors\fR\fR doesn\(cqt propagate NULLs, but computes the
aggregation over the non\-NULL voxels in the neighborhood.
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIg.region\fR
.br
\fIr.neighbors\fR
.br
\fIr3.mapcalc\fR
.br
\fIr3.stats\fR
.br
\fIr3.support\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Soeren Gebbert
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r3.neighbors source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
3D raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
