.TH r3.out.bin 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr3.out.bin\fR\fR  \- Exports a GRASS 3D raster map to a binary array.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster3d, export, voxel
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr3.out.bin\fR
.br
\fBr3.out.bin \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr3.out.bin\fR [\-\fBrdi\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBnull\fR=\fIfloat\fR]  \fBbytes\fR=\fIinteger\fR  [\fBorder\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-r\fR" 4m
.br
Switch the row order in output from north\->south to south\->north
.IP "\fB\-d\fR" 4m
.br
Switch the depth order in output from bottom\->top to top\->bottom
.IP "\fB\-i\fR" 4m
.br
Write data as integer
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input 3D raster map
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output file
.IP "\fBnull\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Value to write out for null
.br
Default: \fI0\fR
.IP "\fBbytes\fR=\fIinteger\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Number of bytes per cell in binary file
.br
Options: \fI1, 2, 4, 8\fR
.IP "\fBorder\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Output byte order
.br
Options: \fIbig, little, native, swap\fR
.br
Default: \fInative\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIr3.out.bin\fR program exports a GRASS 3D raster map to a binary array
file. Optionally, output can be send to standard output (stdout) for direct
input (pipe) into other applications. Data is exported according to the
original GRASS 3D raster type (float, double).
.SH NOTES
The write order of the rows (north\->south to south\->north) and
the write order of the depths (bottom\->top to top\->bottom) can be switched.
.PP
The region parameters are printed to stderr when setting the verbose flag.
Export of little and big endian byte order is supported.
.PP
Have a look at r3.out.ascii manual page that
describes the internal layout of the 3D raster maps and the supported
row and depth switch options.
.SH Examples
Have a look at the examples in r3.in.bin.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r3.in.bin,
r3.in.ascii
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Sören Gebbert, based on r.out.bin from Bob Covill and Glynn Clements
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r3.out.bin source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
3D raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
