.TH r3.out.v5d 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr3.out.v5d\fR\fR  \- Exports GRASS 3D raster map to 3\-dimensional Vis5D file.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster3d, export, output, voxel
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr3.out.v5d\fR
.br
\fBr3.out.v5d \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr3.out.v5d\fR [\-\fBm\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIstring\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-m\fR" 4m
.br
Use map coordinates instead of xyz coordinates
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
3D raster map to be converted to Vis5D (V5D) file
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for V5D output file
.SH DESCRIPTION
Exports 3D raster maps to V5D format. The \fImap\fR parameter is a valid
3D raster map in the current mapset search path. The \fIoutput\fR
parameter is the name  of a V5D file which will be written in the current
working directory.
.PP
Vis5D is a system
for interactive visualization of large 5D gridded data sets such as those
produced by numerical weather models. The user can make isosurfaces, contour
line slices, colored slices, volume renderings, etc. of data in a 3D raster map,
then rotate and animate the images in real time. There\(cqs also a feature
for wind trajectory tracing, a way to make text anotations for publications,
support for interactive data analysis, etc.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r3.in.v5d,
r3.out.vtk
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Jaro Hofierka, GeoModel s.r.o., Slovakia
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
r3.out.v5d source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
3D raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
