.TH r3.out.ascii 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr3.out.ascii\fR\fR  \- Converts a 3D raster map layer into a ASCII text file.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster3d, export, output, voxel, conversion, ASCII
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr3.out.ascii\fR
.br
\fBr3.out.ascii \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr3.out.ascii\fR [\-\fBhrdcm\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIstring\fR  [\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBprecision\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBnull_value\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-h\fR" 4m
.br
Suppress printing of header information
.IP "\fB\-r\fR" 4m
.br
Switch the row order in output from north\->south to south\->north
.IP "\fB\-d\fR" 4m
.br
Switch the depth order in output from bottom\->top to top\->bottom
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 4m
.br
Print grass6 compatible format. Flags \-d and \-r are ignored.
.IP "\fB\-m\fR" 4m
.br
Use 3D raster mask (if exists) with input map
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
3D raster map to be converted to ASCII
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for ASCII output file
.IP "\fBprecision\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Number of decimal places for floats
.br
Options: \fI0\-20\fR
.br
Default: \fI8\fR
.IP "\fBnull_value\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
String representing NULL value
.br
Default: \fI*\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIr3.out.ascii\fR exports a 3D raster map in ASCII format. The \fIinput\fR parameter is
a valid 3D raster map in the current mapset search path. The \fIoutput\fR
parameter is the name of an ASCII file which will be written in the
current working directory.
.PP
If \fIoutput\fR is not specified then standard output (stdout) is used.
The \fI\-h\fR flag may be used to suppress header information. The
module is sensitive to region settings (set with \fIg.region\fR).
.PP
The \fI\-c\fR flag will create GRASS 6 \fIr3.in.ascii\fR compatible
output.
.SH NOTES
The default format of the exported ASCII file is equivalent to that required
by \fIr3.in.ascii\fR. In particular, files output by
\fIr3.out.ascii\fR with header information may be converted back to
3D raster maps with \fIr3.in.ascii\fR.
.PP
The format of the ASCII file is:
.br
.nf
\fC
version: \fI\(dqgrass7\(dq\fR
order:   \fI\(dqnsbt\(dq or \(dqnstb\(dq or \(dqsnbt\(dq or \(dqsntb\(dq\fR
north:   \fIfloating point\fR
south:   \fIfloating point\fR
east:    \fIfloating point\fR
west:    \fIfloating point\fR
top:     \fIfloating point\fR
bottom:  \fIfloating point\fR
rows:    \fIinteger\fR
cols:    \fIinteger\fR
levels:  \fIinteger\fR
\fR
.fi
The \fBversion\fR and \fBorder\fR options have been introduced in GRASS 7 in June 2011.
The \fBorder\fR option describes the order of rows and depths in the output.
It is possible to create output of different row order using the \fI\-r\fR flag
and output of different depths order using the  \fI\-d\fR flag. The default order is:
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
west \-> east for columns
north \-> south for rows
bottom \-> top for depths
\fR
.fi
.PP
This header is followed by the cell values in \fIfloating point\fR format
organized in rows with constant \fIcol\fR and \fIlevel\fR coordinate.
The rows are organized by constant \fIlevel\fR coordinate. Individual cell
values are separated by \fIspace\fR or \fICR\fR.
Cell values are exported as a series of horizontal slices in row\-major
order. The data starts with the upper left corner (NW) at the bottom of the data set.
The values at the following coordinates are exported:
.br
.nf
\fC
(x, y + rows,     z) (x + 1, y + rows,     z) ... (x + cols, y + rows,     z)
(x, y + rows,     z) (x + 1, y + rows \- 1, z) ... (x + cols, y + rows \- 1, z)
          .                     .                                .
          .                     .                                .
          .                     .                                .
(x, y,   z + depths) (x + 1, y,   z + depths) ... (x + cols, y,   z + depths)
\fR
.fi
This order is compatible with the \fIr.in.ascii\fR row \-> column ordering.
.PP
Supported orders are:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBnsbt\fR: north \-> south and bottom \-> top ordering which is the default (no flags)
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBsnbt\fR: south \-> north and bottom \-> top ordering using \fI\-r\fR flag
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBnstb\fR: north \-> south and top \-> bottom ordering using \fI\-d\fR flag
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBsntb\fR: south \-> north and top \-> bottom ordering using \fI\-rd\fR flag
.RE
.PP
The internal storage scheme of 3D raster maps is visualized in the following picture:
.br
.TS
expand;
lw60.
T{
\fIThe coordinate system and tile layout of a voxel map in GRASS\fR
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
One level maps can be imported with \fIr.in.ascii\fR (2D raster) using
the default \fBnsbt\fR order and removing the header lines \(dqversion\(dq,
\(dqorder\(dq, \(dqtop\(dq, \(dqbottom\(dq and \(dqlevels\(dq.
.SH Example
We define a small region with 4 columns, 3 rows and 2 depths (4x3x2) and export
it using different ordering definitions:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region res3=1 t=2 b=0 w=0 e=4 s=0 n=3
r3.mapcalc \(dqsimple_example = row() + col() + depth()\(dq
\fR
.fi
Default order:
.br
.nf
\fC
r3.out.ascii input=simple_example dp=0
version: grass7
order: nsbt
north: 3.000000
south: 0.000000
east: 4.000000
west: 0.000000
top: 2.000000
bottom: 0.000000
rows: 3
cols: 4
levels: 2
3 4 5 6
4 5 6 7
5 6 7 8
4 5 6 7
5 6 7 8
6 7 8 9
\fR
.fi
Inverse row order (\-r)
.br
.nf
\fC
r3.out.ascii input=simple_example dp=0 \-r
version: grass7
order: snbt
north: 3.000000
south: 0.000000
east: 4.000000
west: 0.000000
top: 2.000000
bottom: 0.000000
rows: 3
cols: 4
levels: 2
5 6 7 8
4 5 6 7
3 4 5 6
6 7 8 9
5 6 7 8
4 5 6 7
\fR
.fi
Inverse depth order (\-d)
.br
.nf
\fC
r3.out.ascii input=simple_example dp=0 \-d
version: grass7
order: nstb
north: 3.000000
south: 0.000000
east: 4.000000
west: 0.000000
top: 2.000000
bottom: 0.000000
rows: 3
cols: 4
levels: 2
4 5 6 7
5 6 7 8
6 7 8 9
3 4 5 6
4 5 6 7
5 6 7 8
\fR
.fi
Inverse row and depth order (\-rd)
.br
.nf
\fC
r3.out.ascii input=simple_example dp=0 \-rd
version: grass7
order: sntb
north: 3.000000
south: 0.000000
east: 4.000000
west: 0.000000
top: 2.000000
bottom: 0.000000
rows: 3
cols: 4
levels: 2
6 7 8 9
5 6 7 8
4 5 6 7
5 6 7 8
4 5 6 7
3 4 5 6
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r3.in.ascii,
r.out.ascii,
g.region
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Roman Waupotitsch, Michael Shapiro,
Helena Mitasova, Bill Brown, Lubos Mitas, Jaro Hofierka, Sören Gebbert
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r3.out.ascii source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
3D raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
