.TH r3.timestamp 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr3.timestamp\fR\fR  \- Modifies a timestamp for a 3D raster map.
.br
Print/add/remove a timestamp for a 3D raster map.
.SH KEYWORDS
raster3d, metadata, timestamp, time, voxel
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr3.timestamp\fR
.br
\fBr3.timestamp \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr3.timestamp\fR \fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBdate\fR=\fItimestamp\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of 3D raster map
.IP "\fBdate\fR=\fItimestamp\fR" 4m
.br
Datetime, datetime1/datetime2, or none
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command has 2 modes of operation. If no \fBdate\fR argument is
supplied, then the current timestamp for the 3D raster map is
printed. If a date argument is specified, then the timestamp for the
3D raster map is set to the specified date(s). See examples below.
.PP
See TIMESTAMP FORMAT
description for details.
.SH NOTES
Strings containing spaces should be quoted. For specifying a range of
time, the two timestamps should be separated by a forward slash. To
remove the timestamp from a 3D raster map, use \fBdate=none\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
Prints the timestamp for the \(dqsoils\(dq 3D raster map. If there is no
timestamp for soils, nothing is printed. If there is a timestamp, one
or two lines are printed, depending on if the timestamp for the map
consists of a single date or two dates (ie start and end dates).
.br
.nf
\fC
r3.timestamp map=soils
\fR
.fi
Sets the timestamp for \(dqsoils\(dq to the single date \(dq15 sep 1987\(dq.
.br
.nf
\fC
r3.timestamp map=soils date=\(cq15 sep 1987\(cq
\fR
.fi
Sets the timestamp for \(dqsoils\(dq to have the start date \(dq15 sep 1987\(dq
and the end date \(dq20 feb 1988\(dq.
.br
.nf
\fC
r3.timestamp map=soils date=\(cq15 sep 1987/20 feb 1988\(cq
\fR
.fi
Sets the timestamp for \(dqsoils\(dq to have the start date \(dq18 feb 2005
10:30:00\(dq and the end date \(dq20 jul 2007 20:30:00\(dq.
.br
.nf
\fC
r3.timestamp map=soils date=\(cq18 feb 2005 10:30:00/20 jul 2007 20:30:00\(cq
\fR
.fi
Removes the timestamp for the \(dqsoils\(dq 3D raster map.
.br
.nf
\fC
r3.timestamp map=soils date=none
\fR
.fi
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
Spaces in the timestamp value are required.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r3.info,
r.timestamp,
v.timestamp
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Pelizzari
.br
Lockheed Martin Space Systems
.br
based on r.timestamp by Michael Shapiro,
.br
U.S. Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r3.timestamp source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
3D raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
