.TH r3.to.rast 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBr3.to.rast\fR\fR  \- Converts 3D raster maps to 2D raster maps
.SH KEYWORDS
raster3d, conversion, raster, voxel
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBr3.to.rast\fR
.br
\fBr3.to.rast \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBr3.to.rast\fR [\-\fBmr\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIstring\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIstring\fR  [\fBtype\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBmultiply\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBadd\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-m\fR" 4m
.br
Use 3D raster mask (if exists) with input map
.IP "\fB\-r\fR" 4m
.br
Use the same resolution as the input 3D raster map for the 2D output maps, independent of the current region settings
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
3D raster map(s) to be converted to 2D raster slices
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Basename for resultant raster slice maps
.IP "\fBtype\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Type of raster map to be created
.br
Storage type for resultant raster map
.br
Options: \fICELL, FCELL, DCELL\fR
.br
\fBCELL\fR: Integer
.br
\fBFCELL\fR: Single precision floating point
.br
\fBDCELL\fR: Double precision floating point
.IP "\fBmultiply\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Value to multiply the raster values with
.br
Coefficient a in the equation y = ax + b
.IP "\fBadd\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Value to add to the raster values
.br
Coefficient b in the equation y = ax + b
.SH DESCRIPTION
Converts one 3D raster map into several 2D raster maps (depends on depths).
If the 2D and 3D region settings are different, the 3D resolution will be
adjusted to the 2D resolution (the depths are not touched).
The user can force \fIr3.to.rast\fR to use the 2D resolution of the input
3D raster map for the output maps, independently from the current region settings.
.br
.TS
expand;
lw60.
T{
\fIHow r3.to.rast works\fR
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.SS Map type conversions
Type of resulting 2D raster maps is determined by the type of the
input 3D raster, i.e. 3D raster of type DCELL (double) will result in
DCELL 2D rasters. A specific type for 2D rasters can be requested using
the \fBtype\fR option.
.PP
The \fBtype\fR option is especially advantageous when the 3D raster
map stores categories (which need to be stored as floating point numbers)
and the 2D raster map should be also categorical, i.e. use integers.
The type is set to CELL in this case.
.SS Modifying the values
The values in the 3D raster map can be modified prior to storing in
the 2D raster map. The values can be scaled using the option \fBmultiply\fR
and a constant value can be added using the option \fBadd\fR.
The new value is computed using the following equation:
.br
.nf
\fC
y = ax + b
\fR
.fi
where \fIx\fR is the original value, \fIa\fR is the value of
\fBmultiply\fR option, \fIb\fR is the value of \fBadd\fR option,
and \fIy\fR is the new value. When \fBmultiply\fR is not provided,
the value of \fIa\fR is 1. When \fBadd\fR is not provided, the value
of \fIb\fR is 0.
.SH NOTES
Every slice of the 3D raster map is copied to one 2D raster map. The maps
are named like \fBoutput\fR\fI_slicenumber\fR. Slices are counted from bottom
to the top, so the bottom slice has number 1.
.PP
The number of slices is equal to the number of depths.
.PP
To round floating point values to integers when using type=CELL,
the \fBadd\fR option should be set to 0.5.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r3.cross.rast,
r3.out.vtk,
r3.out.ascii,
g.region
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Sören Gebbert
Vaclav Petras, NCSU GeoForAll Lab
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: r3.to.rast source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
3D raster index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
