.TH raster_graphical 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
\&.img\-list {
margin: 0;
padding: 0;
list\-style\-type: none;
}
\&.img\-list li {
padding: 5px;
overflow: auto;
}
\&.img\-list li:hover {
background\-color: #eee;
}
\&.img\-list li a {
color: initial;
text\-decoration: none;
display: block;
}
\&.img\-list li img {
width: 10%;
float: left;
margin: 0 15px 0 0;
background: white;
object\-fit: scale\-down;
}
\&.img\-list li img.default\-img {
max\-height: 5ex;
}
\&.img\-list li .desc {
margin: 0px;
}
\&.img\-list li .name {
margin: 5px;
display: block;
color: #409940;
font\-weight: bold;
font\-style: italic;
}
.SH Graphical index of GRASS GIS modules
Go to raster introduction | topics
.PP
.SS Raster modules:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.basins.fill\fR \fCGenerates watershed subbasins raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.blend\fR \fCBlends color components of two raster maps by a given ratio.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.buffer\fR \fCCreates a raster map showing buffer zones surrounding cells that contain non\-NULL category values.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.buffer.lowmem\fR \fCCreates a raster map showing buffer zones surrounding cells that contain non\-NULL category values.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.buildvrt\fR \fCBuild a VRT (Virtual Raster) from the list of input raster maps.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.carve\fR \fCGenerates stream channels.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.category\fR \fCManages category values and labels associated with user\-specified raster map layers.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.circle\fR \fCCreates a raster map containing concentric rings around a given point.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.clump\fR \fCRecategorizes data in a raster map by grouping cells that form physically discrete areas into unique categories.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.coin\fR \fCTabulates the mutual occurrence (coincidence) of categories for two raster map layers.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.colors\fR \fCCreates/modifies the color table associated with a raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.colors.out\fR \fCExports the color table associated with a raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.colors.stddev\fR \fCSets color rules based on stddev from a raster map\(cqs mean value.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.composite\fR \fCCombines red, green and blue raster maps into a single composite raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.compress\fR \fCCompresses and decompresses raster maps.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.contour\fR \fCProduces a vector map of specified contours from a raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.cost\fR \fCCreates a raster map showing the cumulative cost of moving between different geographic locations on an input raster map whose cell category values represent cost.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.covar\fR \fCOutputs a covariance/correlation matrix for user\-specified raster map layer(s).\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.cross\fR \fCCreates a cross product of the category values from multiple raster map layers.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.describe\fR \fCPrints terse list of category values found in a raster map layer.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.distance\fR \fCLocates the closest points between objects in two raster maps.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.drain\fR \fCTraces a flow through an elevation model or cost surface on a raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.external\fR \fCLinks GDAL supported raster data as a pseudo GRASS raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.external.out\fR \fCRedirects raster output to file utilizing GDAL library rather than storing in GRASS raster format.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.fill.dir\fR \fCFilters and generates a depressionless elevation map and a flow direction map from a given elevation raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.fill.stats\fR \fCRapidly fills \(cqno data\(cq cells (NULLs) of a raster map with interpolated values (IDW).\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.fillnulls\fR \fCFills no\-data areas in raster maps using spline interpolation.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.flow\fR \fCConstructs flowlines.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.geomorphon\fR \fCCalculates geomorphons (terrain forms) and associated geometry using machine vision approach.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.grow.distance\fR \fCGenerates a raster map containing distances to nearest raster features and/or the value of the nearest non\-null cell.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.grow\fR \fCGenerates a raster map layer with contiguous areas grown by one cell.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.gwflow\fR \fCNumerical calculation program for transient, confined and unconfined groundwater flow in two dimensions.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.his\fR \fCGenerates red, green and blue (RGB) raster map layers combining hue, intensity and saturation (HIS) values from user\-specified input raster map layers.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.horizon\fR \fCComputes horizon angle height from a digital elevation model.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.import\fR \fCImports raster data into a GRASS raster map using GDAL library and reprojects on the fly.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.in.ascii\fR \fCConverts a GRASS ASCII raster file to binary raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.in.aster\fR \fCGeoreference, rectify, and import Terra\-ASTER imagery and relative DEMs using gdalwarp.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.in.bin\fR \fCImport a binary raster file into a GRASS raster map layer.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.in.gdal\fR \fCImports raster data into a GRASS raster map using GDAL library.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.in.gridatb\fR \fCImports GRIDATB.FOR map file (TOPMODEL) into a GRASS raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.in.lidar\fR \fCCreates a raster map from LAS LiDAR points using univariate statistics.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.in.mat\fR \fCImports a binary MAT\-File(v4) to a GRASS raster.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.in.png\fR \fCImports non\-georeferenced PNG format image.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.in.poly\fR \fCCreates raster maps from ASCII polygon/line/point data files.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.in.srtm\fR \fCImports SRTM HGT files into raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.in.wms\fR \fCDownloads and imports data from OGC WMS and OGC WMTS web mapping servers.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.in.xyz\fR \fCCreates a raster map from an assemblage of many coordinates using univariate statistics.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.info\fR \fCOutputs basic information about a raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.kappa\fR \fCCalculates error matrix and kappa parameter for accuracy assessment of classification result.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.lake\fR \fCFills lake at given point to given level.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.latlong\fR \fCCreates a latitude/longitude raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.li.cwed\fR \fCCalculates contrast weighted edge density index on a raster map\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.li.daemon\fR \fCSupport module for r.li landscape index calculations.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.li.dominance\fR \fCCalculates dominance\(cqs diversity index on a raster map\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.li.edgedensity\fR \fCCalculates edge density index on a raster map, using a 4 neighbour algorithm\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.li\fR \fCToolset for multiscale analysis of landscape structure\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.li.mpa\fR \fCCalculates mean pixel attribute index on a raster map\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.li.mps\fR \fCCalculates mean patch size index on a raster map, using a 4 neighbour algorithm\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.li.padcv\fR \fCCalculates coefficient of variation of patch area on a raster map\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.li.padrange\fR \fCCalculates range of patch area size on a raster map\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.li.padsd\fR \fCCalculates standard deviation of patch area a raster map\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.li.patchdensity\fR \fCCalculates patch density index on a raster map, using a 4 neighbour algorithm\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.li.patchnum\fR \fCCalculates patch number index on a raster map, using a 4 neighbour algorithm.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.li.pielou\fR \fCCalculates Pielou\(cqs diversity index on a raster map\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.li.renyi\fR \fCCalculates Renyi\(cqs diversity index on a raster map\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.li.richness\fR \fCCalculates richness index on a raster map\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.li.shannon\fR \fCCalculates Shannon\(cqs diversity index on a raster map\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.li.shape\fR \fCCalculates shape index on a raster map\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.li.simpson\fR \fCCalculates Simpson\(cqs diversity index on a raster map\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.mapcalc\fR \fCRaster map calculator.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.mapcalc.simple\fR \fCCalculates a new raster map from a simple r.mapcalc expression.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.mask\fR \fCCreates a MASK for limiting raster operation.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.mfilter\fR \fCPerforms raster map matrix filter.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.mode\fR \fCFinds the mode of values in a cover map within areas assigned the same category value in a user\-specified base map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.neighbors\fR \fCMakes each cell category value a function of the category values assigned to the cells around it, and stores new cell values in an output raster map layer.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.null\fR \fCManages NULL\-values of given raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.out.ascii\fR \fCConverts a raster map layer into a GRASS ASCII text file.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.out.bin\fR \fCExports a GRASS raster to a binary array.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.out.gdal\fR \fCExports GRASS raster maps into GDAL supported formats.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.out.gridatb\fR \fCExports GRASS raster map to GRIDATB.FOR map file (TOPMODEL).\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.out.mat\fR \fCExports a GRASS raster to a binary MAT\-File.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.out.mpeg\fR \fCConverts raster map series to MPEG movie.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.out.png\fR \fCExport a GRASS raster map as a non\-georeferenced PNG image.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.out.pov\fR \fCConverts a raster map layer into a height\-field file for POV\-Ray.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.out.ppm\fR \fCConverts a GRASS raster map to a PPM image file.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.out.ppm3\fR \fCConverts 3 GRASS raster layers (R,G,B) to a PPM image file.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.out.vrml\fR \fCExports a raster map to the Virtual Reality Modeling Language (VRML).\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.out.vtk\fR \fCConverts raster maps into the VTK\-ASCII format.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.out.xyz\fR \fCExports a raster map to a text file as x,y,z values based on cell centers.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.pack\fR \fCExports a raster map as GRASS GIS specific archive file\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.param.scale\fR \fCExtracts terrain parameters from a DEM.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.patch\fR \fCCreates a composite raster map layer by using known category values from one (or more) map layer(s) to fill in areas of \(dqno data\(dq in another map layer.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.path\fR \fCTraces paths from starting points following input directions.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.plane\fR \fCCreates raster plane map given dip (inclination), aspect (azimuth) and one point.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.profile\fR \fCOutputs the raster map layer values lying on user\-defined line(s).\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.proj\fR \fCRe\-projects a raster map from given location to the current location.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.quant\fR \fCProduces the quantization file for a floating\-point map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.quantile\fR \fCCompute quantiles using two passes.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.random.cells\fR \fCGenerates random cell values with spatial dependence.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.random\fR \fCCreates a raster map layer and vector point map containing randomly located points.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.random.surface\fR \fCGenerates random surface(s) with spatial dependence.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.reclass.area\fR \fCReclasses a raster map greater or less than user specified area size (in hectares).\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.reclass\fR \fCReclassify raster map based on category values.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.recode\fR \fCRecodes categorical raster maps.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.region\fR \fCSets the boundary definitions for a raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.regression.line\fR \fCCalculates linear regression from two raster maps: y = a + b*x.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.regression.multi\fR \fCCalculates multiple linear regression from raster maps.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.relief\fR \fCCreates shaded relief map from an elevation map (DEM).
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.report\fR \fCReports statistics for raster maps.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.resamp.bspline\fR \fCPerforms bilinear or bicubic spline interpolation with Tykhonov regularization.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.resamp.filter\fR \fCResamples raster map layers using an analytic kernel.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.resamp.interp\fR \fCResamples raster map to a finer grid using interpolation.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.resamp.rst\fR \fCReinterpolates and optionally computes topographic analysis from input raster map to a new raster map (possibly with different resolution) using regularized spline with tension and smoothing.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.resamp.stats\fR \fCResamples raster map layers to a coarser grid using aggregation.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.resample\fR \fCGRASS raster map layer data resampling capability.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.rescale.eq\fR \fCRescales histogram equalized the range of category values in a raster map layer.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.rescale\fR \fCRescales the range of category values in a raster map layer.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.rgb\fR \fCSplits a raster map into red, green and blue maps.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.ros\fR \fCGenerates rate of spread raster maps.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.series.accumulate\fR \fCMakes each output cell value a accumulationfunction of the values assigned to the corresponding cells in the input raster map layers.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.series\fR \fCMakes each output cell value a function of the values assigned to the corresponding cells in the input raster map layers.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.series.interp\fR \fCInterpolates raster maps located (temporal or spatial) in between input raster maps at specific sampling positions.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.shade\fR \fCDrapes a color raster over an shaded relief or aspect map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.sim.sediment\fR \fCSediment transport and erosion/deposition simulation using path sampling method (SIMWE).\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.sim.water\fR \fCOverland flow hydrologic simulation using path sampling method (SIMWE).\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.slope.aspect\fR \fCGenerates raster maps of slope, aspect, curvatures and partial derivatives from an elevation raster map.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.solute.transport\fR \fCNumerical calculation program for transient, confined and unconfined solute transport in two dimensions\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.spread\fR \fCSimulates elliptically anisotropic spread.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.spreadpath\fR \fCRecursively traces the least cost path backwards to cells from which the cumulative cost was determined.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.statistics\fR \fCCalculates category or object oriented statistics.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.stats\fR \fCGenerates area statistics for raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.stats.quantile\fR \fCCompute category quantiles using two passes.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.stats.zonal\fR \fCCalculates category or object oriented statistics (accumulator\-based statistics).\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.stream.extract\fR \fCPerforms stream network extraction.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.sun\fR \fCSolar irradiance and irradiation model.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.sunhours\fR \fCCalculates solar elevation, solar azimuth, and sun hours.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.sunmask\fR \fCCalculates cast shadow areas from sun position and elevation raster map.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.support\fR \fCAllows creation and/or modification of raster map layer support files.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.support.stats\fR \fCUpdate raster map statistics\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.surf.area\fR \fCPrints estimation of surface area for raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.surf.contour\fR \fCGenerates surface raster map from rasterized contours.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.surf.fractal\fR \fCCreates a fractal surface of a given fractal dimension.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.surf.gauss\fR \fCGenerates a raster map using gaussian random number generator.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.surf.idw\fR \fCProvides surface interpolation from raster point data by Inverse Distance Squared Weighting.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.surf.random\fR \fCProduces a raster surface map of uniform random deviates with defined range.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.terraflow\fR \fCPerforms flow computation for massive grids.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.texture\fR \fCGenerate images with textural features from a raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.thin\fR \fCThins non\-null cells that denote linear features in a raster map layer.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.tile\fR \fCSplits a raster map into tiles.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.tileset\fR \fCProduces tilings of the source projection for use in the destination region and projection.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.timestamp\fR \fCModifies a timestamp for a raster map.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.to.rast3\fR \fCConverts 2D raster map slices to one 3D raster volume map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.to.rast3elev\fR \fCCreates a 3D volume map based on 2D elevation and value raster maps.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.to.vect\fR \fCConverts a raster map into a vector map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.topidx\fR \fCCreates a topographic index (wetness index) raster map from an elevation raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.topmodel\fR \fCSimulates TOPMODEL which is a physically based hydrologic model.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.transect\fR \fCOutputs raster map layer values lying along user defined transect line(s).\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.univar\fR \fCCalculates univariate statistics from the non\-null cells of a raster map.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.unpack\fR \fCImports a GRASS GIS specific raster archive file (packed with r.pack) as a raster map\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.uslek\fR \fCComputes USLE Soil Erodibility Factor (K).\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.usler\fR \fCComputes USLE R factor, Rainfall erosivity index.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.viewshed\fR \fCComputes the viewshed of a point on an elevation raster map.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.volume\fR \fCCalculates the volume of data \(dqclumps\(dq.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.walk\fR \fCCreates a raster map showing the anisotropic cumulative cost of moving between different geographic locations on an input raster map whose cell category values represent cost.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.water.outlet\fR \fCCreates watershed basins from a drainage direction map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.watershed\fR \fCCalculates hydrological parameters and RUSLE factors.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.what.color\fR \fCQueries colors for a raster map layer.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr.what\fR \fCQueries raster maps on their category values and category labels.\fR
.RE
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
