.TH raster3d_graphical 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
\&.img\-list {
margin: 0;
padding: 0;
list\-style\-type: none;
}
\&.img\-list li {
padding: 5px;
overflow: auto;
}
\&.img\-list li:hover {
background\-color: #eee;
}
\&.img\-list li a {
color: initial;
text\-decoration: none;
display: block;
}
\&.img\-list li img {
width: 10%;
float: left;
margin: 0 15px 0 0;
background: white;
object\-fit: scale\-down;
}
\&.img\-list li img.default\-img {
max\-height: 5ex;
}
\&.img\-list li .desc {
margin: 0px;
}
\&.img\-list li .name {
margin: 5px;
display: block;
color: #409940;
font\-weight: bold;
font\-style: italic;
}
.SH Graphical index of GRASS GIS modules
Go to 3D raster introduction | topics
.PP
.SS 3d raster modules:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.colors\fR \fCCreates/modifies the color table associated with a 3D raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.colors.out\fR \fCExports the color table associated with a 3D raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.cross.rast\fR \fCCreates cross section 2D raster map from 3D raster map based on 2D elevation map\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.flow\fR \fCComputes 3D flow lines and 3D flow accumulation.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.gradient\fR \fCComputes gradient of a 3D raster map and outputs gradient components as three 3D raster maps.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.gwflow\fR \fCNumerical calculation program for transient, confined groundwater flow in three dimensions.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.in.ascii\fR \fCConverts a 3D ASCII raster text file into a (binary) 3D raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.in.bin\fR \fCImports a binary raster file into a GRASS 3D raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.in.lidar\fR \fCCreates a 3D raster map from LAS LiDAR points using univariate statistics.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.in.v5d\fR \fCImport 3\-dimensional Vis5D files.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.in.xyz\fR \fCCreate a 3D raster map from an assemblage of many coordinates using univariate statistics\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.info\fR \fCOutputs basic information about a user\-specified 3D raster map layer.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.mapcalc\fR \fCRaster map calculator.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.mask\fR \fCEstablishes the current working 3D raster mask.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.mkdspf\fR \fCCreates a display file from an existing 3D raster map according to specified threshold levels.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.neighbors\fR \fCMakes each voxel value a function of the values assigned to the voxels around it, and stores new voxel values in an output 3D raster map\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.null\fR \fCExplicitly create the 3D NULL\-value bitmap file.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.out.ascii\fR \fCConverts a 3D raster map layer into a ASCII text file.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.out.bin\fR \fCExports a GRASS 3D raster map to a binary array.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.out.v5d\fR \fCExports GRASS 3D raster map to 3\-dimensional Vis5D file.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.out.vtk\fR \fCConverts 3D raster maps into the VTK\-ASCII format.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.retile\fR \fCRetiles an existing 3D raster map with user defined x, y and z tile size.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.stats\fR \fCGenerates volume statistics for 3D raster maps.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.support\fR \fCAllows creation and/or modification of 3D raster map layer support files.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.timestamp\fR \fCModifies a timestamp for a 3D raster map.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.to.rast\fR \fCConverts 3D raster maps to 2D raster maps\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCr3.univar\fR \fCCalculates univariate statistics from the non\-null cells of a 3D raster map.
.br
\fR
.RE
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
