.TH raster3d 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
.PP
\fBGeographic Resources Analysis Support System\fR, commonly
referred to as GRASS GIS, is a Geographic
Information System (GIS) used for geospatial data management and
analysis, image processing, graphics/maps production, spatial
modeling, and visualization. GRASS is currently used in academic and
commercial settings around the world, as well as by many governmental
agencies and environmental consulting companies.
.PP
This reference manual details the use of modules distributed with
Geographic Resources Analysis Support System (GRASS), an open source
(GNU GPLed), image
processing and geographic information system (GIS).
Go to 3D raster introduction | topics
.PP
Go back to help overview
.SS 3d raster commands:
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
r3.colors
T}	 	T{
Creates/modifies the color table associated with a 3D raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.colors.out
T}	 	T{
Exports the color table associated with a 3D raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.cross.rast
T}	 	T{
Creates cross section 2D raster map from 3D raster map based on 2D elevation map
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.flow
T}	 	T{
Computes 3D flow lines and 3D flow accumulation.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.gradient
T}	 	T{
Computes gradient of a 3D raster map and outputs gradient components as three 3D raster maps.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.gwflow
T}	 	T{
Numerical calculation program for transient, confined groundwater flow in three dimensions.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.in.ascii
T}	 	T{
Converts a 3D ASCII raster text file into a (binary) 3D raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.in.bin
T}	 	T{
Imports a binary raster file into a GRASS 3D raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.in.lidar
T}	 	T{
Creates a 3D raster map from LAS LiDAR points using univariate statistics.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.in.v5d
T}	 	T{
Import 3\-dimensional Vis5D files.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.in.xyz
T}	 	T{
Create a 3D raster map from an assemblage of many coordinates using univariate statistics
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.info
T}	 	T{
Outputs basic information about a user\-specified 3D raster map layer.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.mapcalc
T}	 	T{
Raster map calculator.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.mask
T}	 	T{
Establishes the current working 3D raster mask.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.mkdspf
T}	 	T{
Creates a display file from an existing 3D raster map according to specified threshold levels.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.neighbors
T}	 	T{
Makes each voxel value a function of the values assigned to the voxels around it, and stores new voxel values in an output 3D raster map
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.null
T}	 	T{
Explicitly create the 3D NULL\-value bitmap file.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.out.ascii
T}	 	T{
Converts a 3D raster map layer into a ASCII text file.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.out.bin
T}	 	T{
Exports a GRASS 3D raster map to a binary array.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.out.v5d
T}	 	T{
Exports GRASS 3D raster map to 3\-dimensional Vis5D file.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.out.vtk
T}	 	T{
Converts 3D raster maps into the VTK\-ASCII format.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.retile
T}	 	T{
Retiles an existing 3D raster map with user defined x, y and z tile size.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.stats
T}	 	T{
Generates volume statistics for 3D raster maps.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.support
T}	 	T{
Allows creation and/or modification of 3D raster map layer support files.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.timestamp
T}	 	T{
Modifies a timestamp for a 3D raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.to.rast
T}	 	T{
Converts 3D raster maps to 2D raster maps
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.univar
T}	 	T{
Calculates univariate statistics from the non\-null cells of a 3D raster map.
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
