.TH t.connect 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBt.connect\fR\fR  \- Prints/sets general temporal GIS database connection for current mapset.
.SH KEYWORDS
temporal, settings, metadata
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBt.connect\fR
.br
\fBt.connect \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBt.connect\fR [\-\fBpcdg\fR]  [\fBdriver\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBdatabase\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-p\fR" 4m
.br
Print current connection parameters and exit
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 4m
.br
Check connection parameters, set if uninitialized, and exit
.IP "\fB\-d\fR" 4m
.br
Set from default settings and exit
.br
Overwrite current settings if initialized
.IP "\fB\-g\fR" 4m
.br
Print current connection parameter in shell style and exit
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBdriver\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of database driver
.br
Options: \fIsqlite, pg\fR
.br
Default: \fIsqlite\fR
.IP "\fBdatabase\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of database
.br
Default: \fI$GISDBASE/$LOCATION_NAME/$MAPSET/tgis/sqlite.db\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIt.connect\fR allows the user to set the temporal database connection.
The default setting is that the temporal database of
type \fIsqlite3\fR is located in the current mapset directory.
.PP
The \fB\-p\fR flag will display the current temporal database connection parameters.
.PP
The \fB\-pg\fR flag will display the current temporal database connection parameters
using shell style.
.PP
The \fB\-c\fR flag will silently check if the temporal database connection
parameters have been set, and if not will set them to use GRASS\(cqs
default values.
.SH NOTES
Setting the connection with \fIt.connect\fR will not test the connection for validity.
Hence a database connection will not be established.
.PP
The connection values are stored in the mapset\(cqs VAR file.
The \fB\-d\fR flag will set the default
TGIS connection parameters.
A SQLite database \(dqtgis/sqlite.db\(dq will be created in the current mapset directory.
It will be located in the \(dqtgis\(dq sub\-directory to not
interfere with the \fIsqlite3\fR database used for vector attribute storage.
.PP
In case you have tens of thousands of maps to register in the
temporal database or you need concurrent read and write access in the
temporal database, consider to use a PostgreSQL connection instead.
.PP
Be aware that you have to set the PostgreSQL connection explicitly in
every mapset that should store temporal information in the temporal database.
.PP
PostgreSQL and SQLite databases can not be mixed in a location.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS SQLite
The SQLite database is created automatically when used the first time.
.br
.nf
\fC
# use single quotes here
t.connect driver=sqlite database=\(cq$GISDBASE/$LOCATION_NAME/PERMANENT/tgis/sqlite.db\(cq
t.connect \-p
t.info \-s
\fR
.fi
.PP
.SS PostgreSQL
When using a PostgreSQL database, the user will need to specify the TGIS
database connection for each mapset.
.br
.nf
\fC
t.connect driver=pg database=\(dqdbname=grass_test user=soeren password=abcdefgh\(dq
t.connect \-p
t.info \-s
\fR
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Soeren Gebbert, Thünen Institute of Climate\-Smart Agriculture
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: t.connect source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Temporal index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
