.TH t.list 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBt.list.py\fR\fR  \- Lists space time datasets and maps registered in the temporal database.
.SH KEYWORDS
temporal, map management, list, time
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBt.list.py\fR
.br
\fBt.list.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBt.list.py\fR [\-\fBc\fR]  [\fBtype\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBtemporaltype\fR=\fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR,...]]   [\fBorder\fR=\fIstring\fR[,\fIstring\fR,...]]   [\fBcolumns\fR=\fIstring\fR[,\fIstring\fR,...]]   [\fBwhere\fR=\fIsql_query\fR]   [\fBseparator\fR=\fIcharacter\fR]   [\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 4m
.br
Print the column names as first row
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBtype\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Type of the space time dataset or map, default is strds
.br
Options: \fIstrds,  str3ds,  stvds,  raster,  raster_3d,  vector\fR
.br
Default: \fIstrds\fR
.IP "\fBtemporaltype\fR=\fIname[,\fIname\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
The temporal type of the space time dataset
.br
Options: \fIabsolute, relative\fR
.br
Default: \fIabsolute,relative\fR
.IP "\fBorder\fR=\fIstring[,\fIstring\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Sort the space time dataset by category
.br
Columns number_of_maps and granularity only available for space time datasets
.br
Options: \fIid, name, creator, mapset, number_of_maps, creation_time, start_time, end_time, interval, north, south, west, east, granularity\fR
.br
Default: \fIid\fR
.IP "\fBcolumns\fR=\fIstring[,\fIstring\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Columns to be printed to stdout
.br
Columns number_of_maps and granularity only available for space time datasets
.br
Options: \fIid, name, creator, mapset, number_of_maps, creation_time, start_time, end_time, north, south, west, east, granularity, all\fR
.br
Default: \fIid\fR
.IP "\fBwhere\fR=\fIsql_query\fR" 4m
.br
WHERE conditions of SQL statement without \(cqwhere\(cq keyword used in the temporal GIS framework
.br
Example: start_time > \(cq2001\-01\-01 12:30:00\(cq
.IP "\fBseparator\fR=\fIcharacter\fR" 4m
.br
Field separator character between the output columns
.br
Special characters: pipe, comma, space, tab, newline
.br
Default: \fIpipe\fR
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output file
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIt.list\fR lists any dataset that is registered in the temporal
database. Datasets are raster, 3D raster and vector maps as well as
their corresponding space time datasets (STRDS, STR3DS and STVDS). The
type of the dataset can be specified using the \fItype\fR option,
default is STRDS. By default all datasets with relative and absolute
time are listed. However, the user has the ability to specify a single
temporal type with the \fItemporaltype\fR option. The user can
define the columns that should be printed for each dataset and the
order of the datasets. In addition a SQL WHERE statement can be
specified to select a subset of the requested datasets.
.SH NOTES
The SQL \fIwhere\fR and \fIsort\fR expression will be applied for
each temporal database that was found in accessible mapsets. Hence
sorting works only on mapset basis.
.PP
Temporal databases stored in other mapsets can be used as long as they
are in the user\(cqs current mapset search path (managed with
g.mapsets).
.SH EXAMPLES
Obtain the list of space time raster dataset(s):
.br
.nf
\fC
t.list strds
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
Space time raster datasets with absolute time available in mapset <climate_2000_2012>:
tempmean_monthly@climate_2000_2012
\fR
.fi
Obtain the list of space time raster datasets in a specific mapset (Note
that the target mapset must be in the user\(cqs search path):
.br
.nf
\fC
# strds in PERMANENT
t.list strds where=\(dqmapset = \(cqPERMANENT\(cq\(dq
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
# strds in climate_2000_2012
t.list strds where=\(dqmapset = \(cqclimate_2000_2012\(cq\(dq
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
Space time raster datasets with absolute time available in mapset <climate_2000_2012>:
precip_abs@climate_2000_2012
precipitation@climate_2000_2012
tempmean@climate_2000_2012
\fR
.fi
The \fIwhere\fR option can also be used to list the stds with a
certain pattern in their name, i.e. as the pattern option in g.list.
.br
.nf
\fC
# strds whose name start with \(dqprecip\(dq
t.list type=strds where=\(dqname LIKE \(cqprecip%\(cq\(dq
\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-\-
Space time raster datasets with absolute time available in mapset <climate_1970_2012>:
precip_abs@climate_1970_2012
precipitation@climate_1970_2012
\fR
.fi
The user can also obtain the list of time stamped raster maps. These maps
might be registered in strds or not. The output of the following command
can vary according to the accessible mapsets specified through
g.mapsets.
.br
.nf
\fC
t.list raster
Time stamped raster maps with absolute time available in mapset <climate_2000_2012>:
2009_01_tempmean@climate_2000_2012
2009_02_tempmean@climate_2000_2012
2009_03_tempmean@climate_2000_2012
\&...
2012_10_tempmean@climate_2000_2012
2012_11_tempmean@climate_2000_2012
2012_12_tempmean@climate_2000_2012
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
g.list,
t.create,
t.info,
t.rast.list,
t.rast3d.list,
t.vect.list
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Sören Gebbert, Thünen Institute of Climate\-Smart Agriculture
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
t.list source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Temporal index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
