.TH t.rast.contour 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBt.rast.contour.py\fR\fR  \- Produces a space time vector dataset of specified contours from a space time raster dataset.
.SH KEYWORDS
temporal, contour, raster, vector, time
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBt.rast.contour.py\fR
.br
\fBt.rast.contour.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBt.rast.contour.py\fR [\-\fBnt\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBwhere\fR=\fIsql_query\fR]  \fBbasename\fR=\fIstring\fR  [\fBsuffix\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBstep\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBlevels\fR=\fIfloat\fR[,\fIfloat\fR,...]]   [\fBminlevel\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBmaxlevel\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBcut\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBnprocs\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-n\fR" 4m
.br
Register empty vector maps
.IP "\fB\-t\fR" 4m
.br
Do not create attribute tables
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of the input space time raster dataset
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of the output space time vector dataset
.IP "\fBwhere\fR=\fIsql_query\fR" 4m
.br
WHERE conditions of SQL statement without \(cqwhere\(cq keyword used in the temporal GIS framework
.br
Example: start_time > \(cq2001\-01\-01 12:30:00\(cq
.IP "\fBbasename\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Basename of the new generated output maps
.br
A numerical suffix separated by an underscore will be attached to create a unique identifier
.IP "\fBsuffix\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Suffix to add at basename: set \(cqgran\(cq for granularity, \(cqtime\(cq for the full time format, \(cqnum\(cq for numerical suffix with a specific number of digits (default %05)
.br
Default: \fIgran\fR
.IP "\fBstep\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Increment between contour levels
.IP "\fBlevels\fR=\fIfloat[,\fIfloat\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
List of contour levels
.IP "\fBminlevel\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Minimum contour level
.IP "\fBmaxlevel\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Maximum contour level
.IP "\fBcut\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Minimum number of points for a contour line (0 \-> no limit)
.br
Default: \fI0\fR
.IP "\fBnprocs\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Number of r.contour processes to run in parallel, more than 1 process works only in conjunction with flag \-t
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIt.rast.contour\fR is designed to produce a space time vector dataset of
specified contours from a space time raster dataset. This module works as a front\-end to
r.contour and therefore supports all parameter
of this module. Hence, all raster map layers in a space time raster dataset
are successively passed to r.contour that computes
the contour lines.
Please refer to the r.contour documentation
for a detailed description.
The new generated vector contour map
layers will be registered in the output space time vector dataset, using
the same time stamps as their raster map layer origins.
.PP
This module supports the parallel processing of r.contour
module instances. The number of parallel processes
can be set with the \fInprocs\fR option.
However, this will only work in conjunction with the \fI\-t\fR
flag, that avoids the creation of attribute tables.
The parallel creation of attribute tables is not supported.
.PP
The \fIwhere\fR option allows selecting subsets of the input space time raster
dataset.
.PP
The flag \fI\-n\fR can be used to force the registration of empty
vector map layers. Empty vector maps may occur in case that empty
raster map layers should be converted into vector map layers, or in case the
chosen steps or contour levels are not present in the raster map layers.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.contour,
t.rast.db.select,
t.info
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Sören Gebbert, Geoinformatikbüro Dassau
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
t.rast.contour source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Temporal index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
