.TH t.rast.to.vect 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBt.rast.to.vect.py\fR\fR  \- Converts a space time raster dataset into a space time vector dataset
.SH KEYWORDS
temporal, conversion, raster, vector, time
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBt.rast.to.vect.py\fR
.br
\fBt.rast.to.vect.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBt.rast.to.vect.py\fR [\-\fBntszbv\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBwhere\fR=\fIsql_query\fR]  \fBtype\fR=\fIstring\fR \fBbasename\fR=\fIstring\fR  [\fBsuffix\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBcolumn\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBnprocs\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-n\fR" 4m
.br
Register empty vector maps
.IP "\fB\-t\fR" 4m
.br
Do not create attribute tables
.IP "\fB\-s\fR" 4m
.br
Smooth corners of area features
.IP "\fB\-z\fR" 4m
.br
Write raster values as z coordinate
.br
Table is not created. Currently supported only for points.
.IP "\fB\-b\fR" 4m
.br
Do not build vector topology
.br
Name must be SQL compliant
.IP "\fB\-v\fR" 4m
.br
Use raster values as categories instead of unique sequence (CELL only)
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of the input space time raster dataset
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of the output space time vector dataset
.IP "\fBwhere\fR=\fIsql_query\fR" 4m
.br
WHERE conditions of SQL statement without \(cqwhere\(cq keyword used in the temporal GIS framework
.br
Example: start_time > \(cq2001\-01\-01 12:30:00\(cq
.IP "\fBtype\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Output feature type
.br
Options: \fIpoint, line, area\fR
.IP "\fBbasename\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Basename of the new generated output maps
.br
A numerical suffix separated by an underscore will be attached to create a unique identifier
.IP "\fBsuffix\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Suffix to add at basename: set \(cqgran\(cq for granularity, \(cqtime\(cq for the full time format, \(cqnum\(cq for numerical suffix with a specific number of digits (default %05)
.br
Default: \fIgran\fR
.IP "\fBcolumn\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Name of attribute column to store value
.br
Default: \fIvalue\fR
.IP "\fBnprocs\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Number of r.to.vect processes to run in parallel, more than 1 process works only in conjunction with flag \-t
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIt.rast.to.vect\fR is designed to convert a space time raster dataset
into a space time vector dataset. This module works as a front\-end to
r.to.vect and therefore supports all parameter
of this module. Hence, all raster map layers in a space time raster dataset
are passed to r.to.vect that converts them into
vector map layers (using point,line or area as conversion criteria).
Please refer to the r.to.vect documentation
for a detailed description of the raster to vector conversion options.
The new generated vector map
layers will be registered in the output space time vector dataset, using
the same time stamps as their raster map layer origins.
.PP
This module supports the parallel processing of r.to.vect
module instances. The number of parallel processes
can be set with the \fInprocs\fR option.
However, this will only work in conjunction with the \fI\-t\fR
flag, that avoids the creation of attribute tables.
The parallel creation of attribute tables is not supported.
.PP
The \fIwhere\fR option allows selecting subsets of the input space time raster
dataset.
.PP
The flag \fI\-n\fR can be used to force the registration of empty
vector map layers. Empty vector maps may occur in case that empty
raster map layers should be converted into vector map layers.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.to.vect,
t.rast.db.select,
t.info
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Sören Gebbert, Geoinformatikbüro Dassau
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: t.rast.to.vect source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Temporal index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
