.TH t.register 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBt.register.py\fR\fR  \- Assigns timestamps and registers raster, vector and raster3d maps in a space time dataset.
.SH KEYWORDS
temporal, map management, register, time
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBt.register.py\fR
.br
\fBt.register.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBt.register.py\fR [\-\fBi\fR]  [\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBmaps\fR=\fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR,...]]   [\fBtype\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBfile\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBstart\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBend\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBunit\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBincrement\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBseparator\fR=\fIcharacter\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-i\fR" 4m
.br
Create an interval (start and end time) in case an increment and the start time are provided
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of the input space time dataset
.IP "\fBmaps\fR=\fIname[,\fIname\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of the input maps
.IP "\fBtype\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Type of the input map
.br
Options: \fIraster, vector, raster_3d\fR
.br
Default: \fIraster\fR
.IP "\fBfile\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Input file with map names, one per line
.br
Additionally the start time and the end time can be specified per line
.IP "\fBstart\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Valid start date and time of the first map
.br
Format for absolute time: \(dqyyyy\-mm\-dd HH:MM:SS +HHMM\(dq, relative time is of type integer.
.IP "\fBend\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Valid end date and time of all map
.br
Format for absolute time: \(dqyyyy\-mm\-dd HH:MM:SS +HHMM\(dq, relative time is of type integer.
.IP "\fBunit\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Time stamp unit
.br
Unit must be set in case of relative timestamps
.br
Options: \fIyears, months, days, hours, minutes, seconds\fR
.IP "\fBincrement\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Time increment, works only in conjunction with start option
.br
Time increment between maps for creation of valid time intervals (format for absolute time: NNN seconds, minutes, hours, days, weeks, months, years; format for relative time is of type integer: 5)
.IP "\fBseparator\fR=\fIcharacter\fR" 4m
.br
Field separator character of the input file
.br
Special characters: pipe, comma, space, tab, newline
.br
Default: \fIpipe\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
The module \fIt.register\fR has double functionality: it either only assigns
timestamps to raster, 3D raster and vector maps in the temporal database
(if \fIinput\fR option is not provided, see below) or additionally, it also registers
them within input space time datasets (stds). The existing timestamp modules
r.timestamp,
r3.timestamp and
v.timestamp do not register the maps in the
temporal database of GRASS GIS. However, timestamps that have been created
with these modules can be read and used by \fIt.register\fR. This
works only for maps that are not already registered in the temporal
database.
.PP
If the \fIinput\fR option is not used (i.e., no stds is provided), maps
will be only registered in the temporal database with assigned
timestamps. If, on the other hand, the \fIinput\fR option
is used and a stds is provided, maps will be first registered in the temporal
database (if not registered before) and then, in the stds specified. If the
user wants to register maps that are already registered in the temporal
database in a different stds, there is no need to pass information regarding
start and end time, \fIt.register\fR will read timestamps from the temporal
database (i.e., in this case only passing map names will be enough).
.PP
The module \fIt.register\fR supports absolute and relative time. The absolute temporal type
refers to a fixed date while the relative temporal type refers to data
without fixed timestamps (e.g., sequential maps used to calculate
multi\-decadal averages).
.PP
Maps can be registered by command line argument (i.e., a list of comma separated map
names) or using an input file. The start time, end time and a temporal
increment can be provided through command line or in the input file. End time and
increment are mutually exclusive. The user can register single maps or a
list of maps at once. Maps can be registered in several space time
datasets using the same timestamp. For the case of vector time series,
the user can also register a single vector map connected to different
layers representing time steps using the \fBmap:layer\fR notation (See
example below).
.PP
The \fIincrement\fR option and the \fB\-i\fR flag (to create time intervals)
work only in conjunction with the \fBstart\fR option.
If an input file with timestamps (either start time or start time and end time)
is used, then the \fIincrement\fR option and the \fB\-i\fR flag are not supported.
.PP
Start time and end time with absolute time must be provided using the
format \fByyyy\-mm\-dd HH:MM:SS +HHMM\fR. It is also supported to specify
only the date \fByyyy\-mm\-dd\fR. In case of relative time, the temporal
unit (years, months, days, hours, minutes or seconds) must be provided.
In this case, the relative start time, end time and increment are integers.
.SH NOTES
The timestamps of registered maps will be stored in the temporal
database and in the metadata of the grass maps in the spatial database.
This assures that timestamps can always be accessed with
\fI(r|r3|v).timestamp\fR and the temporal modules. Timestamps should
only be modified with \fIt.register\fR because the
\fI(r|r3|v).timestamp\fR modules have no access to the temporal
database.
.SH INPUT FILE FORMAT
There are several options to register maps by means of a file. The input file
consists of a list of map names, optionally along with timestamps. Each map
name (and timestaps if provided) should be stored in a new line in this file.
.PP
When only map names are provided, the \fIincrement\fR option and the \fB\-i\fR
flag are supported. However, when along with map names any kind of timestamp is
provided, as well, the \fIincrement\fR option and the \fB\-i\fR are no longer
supported.
.PP
Specification of map names only (\fIincrement\fR option and \fB\-i\fR flag
supported):
.br
.nf
\fC
terra_lst_day20020113
terra_lst_day20020114
terra_lst_day20020115
terra_lst_day20020116
terra_lst_day20020117
\fR
.fi
.PP
Specification of map names and absolute start time (date) of the time
instances (no support for \fIincrement\fR option nor \fB\-i\fR flag):
.br
.nf
\fC
terra_lst_day20020113|2002\-01\-13
terra_lst_day20020114|2002\-01\-14
terra_lst_day20020115|2002\-01\-15
terra_lst_day20020116|2002\-01\-16
terra_lst_day20020117|2002\-01\-17
\fR
.fi
.PP
Specification of map names and absolute start time (datetime) of the time
instances (no support for \fIincrement\fR option nor \fB\-i\fR flag):
.br
.nf
\fC
terra_lst_day20020113|2002\-01\-13 10:30
terra_lst_day20020114|2002\-01\-14 10:30
terra_lst_day20020115|2002\-01\-15 10:30
terra_lst_day20020116|2002\-01\-16 10:30
terra_lst_day20020117|2002\-01\-17 10:30
\fR
.fi
.PP
Specification of map names and absolute time interval with start and end time
(no support for \fIincrement\fR option nor \fB\-i\fR flag):
.br
.nf
\fC
prec_1|2001\-01\-01|2001\-04\-01
prec_2|2001\-04\-01|2001\-07\-01
prec_3|2001\-07\-01|2001\-10\-01
prec_4|2001\-10\-01|2002\-01\-01
prec_5|2002\-01\-01|2002\-04\-01
prec_6|2002\-04\-01|2002\-07\-01
\fR
.fi
.SH EXAMPLE
.SS North Carolina dataset
.SS Using a text file
Register maps in an absolute space time dataset, creating a time interval
.br
.nf
\fC
# first:  prepare a text file with a list of input maps (see above)
# second: register maps
t.register \-i type=raster input=precipitation_monthly \(rs
    file=list_of_input_maps.txt start=\(dq2009\-01\-01\(dq \(rs
    increment=\(dq1 months\(dq
\fR
.fi
.SS Using \fIg.list\fR to generate the input
Register maps in an absolute space time dataset, creating a time interval
.br
.nf
\fC
t.register \-i type=raster input=precipitation_monthly \(rs
    maps=\(gag.list raster pattern=\(dq*precip*\(dq sep=comma\(ga start=\(dq2009\-01\-01\(dq \(rs
    increment=\(dq1 months\(dq
\fR
.fi
.SS Register a vector map with layers representing time steps
Assume a vector map of points that represent meteorological stations and
it is connected to different layers depicting daily time steps. In this
example, only the fifth layer of the vector map will be registered.
.br
.nf
\fC
# the layer is specified behind the colon
t.register type=vector input=meteo_stations_nc_daily \(rs
    maps=meteo_stations_nc:5 start=\(dq2009\-01\-05\(dq
\fR
.fi
.SS Synthetic maps
In this example we create 6 raster maps that will be registered in a
single space time raster dataset named precip_abs using a monthly
temporal granularity. The \fB\-i\fR flag generates time intervals of the
provided \fIincrement\fR. The generated timestamps will be inspected
using \fIr.timestamp\fR and \fIt.rast.list\fR. We will register an
additional map with a timestamp that was set with \fIr.timestamp\fR.
.br
.nf
\fC
r.mapcalc expression=\(dqprec_1 = 100\(dq
r.mapcalc expression=\(dqprec_2 = 200\(dq
r.mapcalc expression=\(dqprec_3 = 300\(dq
r.mapcalc expression=\(dqprec_4 = 400\(dq
r.mapcalc expression=\(dqprec_5 = 500\(dq
r.mapcalc expression=\(dqprec_6 = 600\(dq
t.create type=strds temporaltype=absolute \(rs
    output=precip_abs title=\(dqExample\(dq \(rs
    descr=\(dqExample\(dq
t.register \-i type=raster input=precip_abs \(rs
    maps=prec_1,prec_2,prec_3,prec_4,prec_5,prec_6 \(rs
    start=\(dq2001\-01\-01\(dq increment=\(dq1 months\(dq
r.timestamp prec_1
1 Jan 2001 00:00:00 / 1 Feb 2001 00:00:00
r.timestamp prec_2
1 Feb 2001 00:00:00 / 1 Mar 2001 00:00:00
t.rast.list input=precip_abs
name|mapset|start_time|end_time
prec_1|PERMANENT|2001\-01\-01 00:00:00|2001\-02\-01 00:00:00
prec_2|PERMANENT|2001\-02\-01 00:00:00|2001\-03\-01 00:00:00
prec_3|PERMANENT|2001\-03\-01 00:00:00|2001\-04\-01 00:00:00
prec_4|PERMANENT|2001\-04\-01 00:00:00|2001\-05\-01 00:00:00
prec_5|PERMANENT|2001\-05\-01 00:00:00|2001\-06\-01 00:00:00
prec_6|PERMANENT|2001\-06\-01 00:00:00|2001\-07\-01 00:00:00
r.mapcalc expression=\(dqprec_7 = 700\(dq
r.timestamp map=prec_7 date=\(dq1 jul 2001 / 1 aug 2001\(dq
t.register type=raster input=precip_abs maps=prec_7
t.rast.list input=precip_abs
name|mapset|start_time|end_time
prec_1|PERMANENT|2001\-01\-01 00:00:00|2001\-02\-01 00:00:00
prec_2|PERMANENT|2001\-02\-01 00:00:00|2001\-03\-01 00:00:00
prec_3|PERMANENT|2001\-03\-01 00:00:00|2001\-04\-01 00:00:00
prec_4|PERMANENT|2001\-04\-01 00:00:00|2001\-05\-01 00:00:00
prec_5|PERMANENT|2001\-05\-01 00:00:00|2001\-06\-01 00:00:00
prec_6|PERMANENT|2001\-06\-01 00:00:00|2001\-07\-01 00:00:00
prec_7|PERMANENT|2001\-07\-01 00:00:00|2001\-08\-01 00:00:00
\fR
.fi
.SS Importing and registering ECA&D climatic data
The European Climate Assessment & Dataset (ECA&D) project
offers the E\-OBS dataset which is a daily gridded observational
dataset for precipitation, temperature and sea level pressure in
Europe based on ECA&D information.
Download and decompress mean temperature data from:
here
by accepting their
Terms of use.
.br
.nf
\fC
# import E\-OBS V12 into a lat\-long location (alternatively, use r.external)
r.in.gdal \-oe input=tg_0.25deg_reg_1950\-1964_v12.0.nc \(rs
  output=temperature_mean offset=0
r.in.gdal \-oe input=tg_0.25deg_reg_1965\-1979_v12.0.nc \(rs
  output=temperature_mean offset=5479 \-\-o
r.in.gdal \-oe input=tg_0.25deg_reg_1980\-1994_v12.0.nc \(rs
  output=temperature_mean offset=10957 \-\-o
r.in.gdal \-oe input=tg_0.25deg_reg_1995\-2015_v12.0.nc \(rs
  output=temperature_mean offset=16436 \-\-o
# create STRDS
t.create type=strds output=temperature_mean_1950_2015_daily \(rs
  temporaltype=absolute semantictype=mean \(rs
  title=\(dqEuropean mean temperature 1950\-2015\(dq \(rs
  description=\(dqThe European daily mean temperature from ECAD\(dq
# create text file with all temperature_mean rasters, one per line,
# a) using a shell script
for i in \(gaseq 1 23922\(ga ; do
    echo temperature_mean.$i >> map_list.txt
done
# b) using a Python script
file = open(\(dqmap_list.txt\(dq, \(dqw\(dq)
for i in range(23922):
    file.write(\(dqtemperature_mean.%i\(rsn\(dq % (i + 1))
file.close()
# register daily maps using the file created above
t.register \-i type=raster input=temperature_mean_1950_2015_daily \(rs
              file=map_list.txt start=\(dq1950\-01\-01\(dq increment=\(dq1 days\(dq
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.timestamp,
t.create,
t.info
\fR
.PP
Maps registration examples in Temporal data processing Wiki
.SH AUTHOR
Sören Gebbert, Thünen Institute of Climate\-Smart Agriculture
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: t.register source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Temporal index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
