.TH t.support 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBt.support.py\fR\fR  \- Modifies the metadata of a space time dataset.
.SH KEYWORDS
temporal, metadata, time
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBt.support.py\fR
.br
\fBt.support.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBt.support.py\fR [\-\fBmu\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBsemantictype\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBtype\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBtitle\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBdescription\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBaggr_type\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-m\fR" 4m
.br
Update the metadata information and spatial extent of registered maps from the GRASS spatial database
.br
Check for removed maps and delete them from the temporal database and all effected space time datasets
.IP "\fB\-u\fR" 4m
.br
Update metadata information, temporal and spatial extent from registered maps based on database entries.
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of the input space time dataset
.IP "\fBsemantictype\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Semantic type of the space time dataset
.br
Options: \fImin, max, sum, mean\fR
.br
Default: \fImean\fR
.IP "\fBtype\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Type of the input space time dataset
.br
Options: \fIstrds, stvds, str3ds\fR
.br
Default: \fIstrds\fR
.IP "\fBtitle\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Title of the space time dataset
.IP "\fBdescription\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Description of the space time dataset
.IP "\fBaggr_type\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Aggregation type of the space time raster or 3D raster dataset
.SH DESCRIPTION
This module is dedicated to modify and update the metadata of a space time dataset.
.PP
The title, description and the semantic type can be modified.
.PP
The flag \fI\-u\fR allows updating the STDS metadata from registered
map layers. This is useful in case the map layers have been modified
without using temporal commands.
.PP
The flag \fI\-m\fR will update the metadata from registered maps, but
also checks if the registered map layers have been removed from the
spatial database. It deletes missing map layers from the space time
dataset register table and the temporal database.
.SH Examples
Modification of title and description of space time raster dataset \fIA\fR.
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
t.support type=strds input=tempmean_monthly title=\(dqMonthly temperature for North Carolina\(dq \(rs
          description=\(dqDataset with monthly temperature for North Carolina\(dq
\fR
.fi
.PP
Update the metadata of space time raster dataset \fIA\fR and check
for removed map layers.
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
t.support \-m type=strds input=tempmean_monthly
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
t.create,
t.info
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Sören Gebbert, Thünen Institute of Climate\-Smart Agriculture
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: t.support source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Temporal index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
