.TH t.unregister 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBt.unregister.py\fR\fR  \- Unregisters raster, vector and raster3d maps from the temporal database or a specific space time dataset.
.SH KEYWORDS
temporal, map management, unregister, time
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBt.unregister.py\fR
.br
\fBt.unregister.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBt.unregister.py\fR  [\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBfile\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBtype\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBmaps\fR=\fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR,...]]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of the input space time dataset
.IP "\fBfile\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Input file with map names, one per line
.IP "\fBtype\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Type of the input map
.br
Options: \fIraster, vector, raster_3d\fR
.br
Default: \fIraster\fR
.IP "\fBmaps\fR=\fIname[,\fIname\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Name(s) of existing raster, vector or raster3d map(s) to unregister
.SH DESCRIPTION
This module is designed to unregister raster, 3D raster and vector map
layers from space time datasets and the temporal database.
.PP
Map layer that should be unregistered from the temporal database can be
specified as a list of comma separated map names or using a text file,
that contains one map layer name per line. By default the map type that
should be unregistered is set to raster. The option\fItype\fR must
be used to specify 3D raster or vector map layer types.
.SH INPUT FILE FORMAT
Specification of map names:
.br
.nf
\fC
a1
a2
a3
a4
a5
a6
\fR
.fi
.SS NOTE
In case the \fIinput\fR option is used to specify a space time dataset
the maps are only unregistered from the space time dataset, but not from the
temporal database. The reason is that maps can be registered in
multiple space time datasets and there is a need to
unregister them from a specific STDS without affecting other STDS.
.SH EXAMPLE
In this example a precipitation map it is registered into temperature
dataset, so the wrong map will be unregister.
.br
.nf
\fC
t.register \-i type=raster input=tempmean_monthly@climate_2009_2012 \(rs
    maps=2012_01_precip \(rs
    start=\(dq2013\-01\-01\(dq increment=\(dq1 month\(dq
# We unregister raster map 2012_01_precip from a space time dataset,
# the raster maps are still present in the temporal database
t.unregister type=raster input=tempmean_monthly@climate_2009_2012 maps=2012_01_precip
# We unregister raster map 2012_01_precip from the temporal database, hence
# the time stamps are removed
t.unregister type=raster maps=2012_01_precip
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
t.create,
t.info
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Sören Gebbert, Thünen Institute of Climate\-Smart Agriculture
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: t.unregister source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Temporal index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
