.TH temporal_graphical 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
\&.img\-list {
margin: 0;
padding: 0;
list\-style\-type: none;
}
\&.img\-list li {
padding: 5px;
overflow: auto;
}
\&.img\-list li:hover {
background\-color: #eee;
}
\&.img\-list li a {
color: initial;
text\-decoration: none;
display: block;
}
\&.img\-list li img {
width: 10%;
float: left;
margin: 0 15px 0 0;
background: white;
object\-fit: scale\-down;
}
\&.img\-list li img.default\-img {
max\-height: 5ex;
}
\&.img\-list li .desc {
margin: 0px;
}
\&.img\-list li .name {
margin: 5px;
display: block;
color: #409940;
font\-weight: bold;
font\-style: italic;
}
.SH Graphical index of GRASS GIS modules
Go to temporal introduction | topics
.PP
.SS Temporal modules:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.connect\fR \fCPrints/sets general temporal GIS database connection for current mapset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.create\fR \fCCreates a space time dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.downgrade\fR \fCDowngrades the version of a space time dataset (TGRASS DB).\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.info\fR \fCLists information about space time datasets and maps.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.list\fR \fCLists space time datasets and maps registered in the temporal database.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.merge\fR \fCMerges several space time datasets into a single space time dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast.accdetect\fR \fCDetects accumulation patterns in temporally accumulated space time raster datasets created by t.rast.accumulate.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast.accumulate\fR \fCComputes cyclic accumulations of a space time raster dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast.aggregate.ds\fR \fCAggregates data of an existing space time raster dataset using the time intervals of a second space time dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast.aggregate\fR \fCAggregates temporally the maps of a space time raster dataset by a user defined granularity.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast.algebra\fR \fCApply temporal and spatial operations on space time raster datasets using temporal raster algebra.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast.colors\fR \fCCreates/modifies the color table associated with each raster map of the space time raster dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast.contour\fR \fCProduces a space time vector dataset of specified contours from a space time raster dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast.export\fR \fCExports space time raster dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast.extract\fR \fCExtracts a subset of a space time raster datasets.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast.gapfill\fR \fCReplaces gaps in a space time raster dataset with interpolated raster maps.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast.import\fR \fCImports space time raster dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast.list\fR \fCLists registered maps of a space time raster dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast.mapcalc\fR \fCPerforms spatio\-temporal mapcalc expressions on temporally sampled maps of space time raster datasets.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast.neighbors\fR \fCPerforms a neighborhood analysis for each map in a space time raster dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast.out.vtk\fR \fCExports space time raster dataset as VTK time series.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast.series\fR \fCPerforms different aggregation algorithms from r.series on all or a subset of raster maps in a space time raster dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast.to.rast3\fR \fCConverts a space time raster dataset into a 3D raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast.to.vect\fR \fCConverts a space time raster dataset into a space time vector dataset\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast.univar\fR \fCCalculates univariate statistics from the non\-null cells for each registered raster map of a space time raster dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast.what\fR \fCSample a space time raster dataset at specific vector point coordinates and write the output to stdout using different layouts\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast3d.algebra\fR \fCApply temporal and spatial operations on space time 3D raster datasets using temporal 3D raster algebra.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast3d.extract\fR \fCExtracts a subset of a space time 3D raster dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast3d.list\fR \fCLists registered maps of a space time raster3d dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast3d.mapcalc\fR \fCPerforms r3.mapcalc expressions on maps of sampled space time 3D raster datasets.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rast3d.univar\fR \fCCalculates univariate statistics from the non\-null cells for each registered 3D raster map of a space time 3D raster dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.register\fR \fCAssigns timestamps and registers raster, vector and raster3d maps in a space time dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.remove\fR \fCRemoves space time datasets from temporal database.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.rename\fR \fCRenames a space time dataset\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.sample\fR \fCSamples the input space time dataset(s) with a sample space time dataset and print the result to stdout.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.select\fR \fCSelect maps from space time datasets by topological relationships to other space time datasets using temporal algebra.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.shift\fR \fCShifts temporally the maps of a space time dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.snap\fR \fCSnaps temporally the maps of a space time dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.support\fR \fCModifies the metadata of a space time dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.topology\fR \fCLists temporal topology of a space time dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.unregister\fR \fCUnregisters raster, vector and raster3d maps from the temporal database or a specific space time dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.vect.algebra\fR \fCApply temporal and spatial operations on space time vector datasets using temporal vector algebra.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.vect.db.select\fR \fCPrints attributes of vector maps registered in a space time vector dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.vect.export\fR \fCExports a space time vector dataset as GRASS GIS specific archive file.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.vect.extract\fR \fCExtracts a subset of a space time vector dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.vect.import\fR \fCImports a space time vector dataset from a GRASS GIS specific archive file.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.vect.list\fR \fCLists registered maps of a space time vector dataset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.vect.observe.strds\fR \fCObserves specific locations in a space time raster dataset over a period of time using vector points.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.vect.univar\fR \fCCalculates univariate statistics of attributes for each registered vector map of a space time vector dataset\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCt.vect.what.strds\fR \fCStores raster map values at spatial and temporal positions of vector points as vector attributes.\fR
.RE
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
