.TH temporal 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
.PP
\fBGeographic Resources Analysis Support System\fR, commonly
referred to as GRASS GIS, is a Geographic
Information System (GIS) used for geospatial data management and
analysis, image processing, graphics/maps production, spatial
modeling, and visualization. GRASS is currently used in academic and
commercial settings around the world, as well as by many governmental
agencies and environmental consulting companies.
.PP
This reference manual details the use of modules distributed with
Geographic Resources Analysis Support System (GRASS), an open source
(GNU GPLed), image
processing and geographic information system (GIS).
Go to temporal introduction | topics
.PP
Go back to help overview
.SS Temporal commands:
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
t.connect
T}	 	T{
Prints/sets general temporal GIS database connection for current mapset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.create
T}	 	T{
Creates a space time dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.downgrade
T}	 	T{
Downgrades the version of a space time dataset (TGRASS DB).
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.info
T}	 	T{
Lists information about space time datasets and maps.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.list
T}	 	T{
Lists space time datasets and maps registered in the temporal database.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.merge
T}	 	T{
Merges several space time datasets into a single space time dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.accdetect
T}	 	T{
Detects accumulation patterns in temporally accumulated space time raster datasets created by t.rast.accumulate.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.accumulate
T}	 	T{
Computes cyclic accumulations of a space time raster dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.aggregate.ds
T}	 	T{
Aggregates data of an existing space time raster dataset using the time intervals of a second space time dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.aggregate
T}	 	T{
Aggregates temporally the maps of a space time raster dataset by a user defined granularity.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.algebra
T}	 	T{
Apply temporal and spatial operations on space time raster datasets using temporal raster algebra.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.colors
T}	 	T{
Creates/modifies the color table associated with each raster map of the space time raster dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.contour
T}	 	T{
Produces a space time vector dataset of specified contours from a space time raster dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.export
T}	 	T{
Exports space time raster dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.extract
T}	 	T{
Extracts a subset of a space time raster datasets.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.gapfill
T}	 	T{
Replaces gaps in a space time raster dataset with interpolated raster maps.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.import
T}	 	T{
Imports space time raster dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.list
T}	 	T{
Lists registered maps of a space time raster dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.mapcalc
T}	 	T{
Performs spatio\-temporal mapcalc expressions on temporally sampled maps of space time raster datasets.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.neighbors
T}	 	T{
Performs a neighborhood analysis for each map in a space time raster dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.out.vtk
T}	 	T{
Exports space time raster dataset as VTK time series.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.series
T}	 	T{
Performs different aggregation algorithms from r.series on all or a subset of raster maps in a space time raster dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.to.rast3
T}	 	T{
Converts a space time raster dataset into a 3D raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.to.vect
T}	 	T{
Converts a space time raster dataset into a space time vector dataset
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.univar
T}	 	T{
Calculates univariate statistics from the non\-null cells for each registered raster map of a space time raster dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.what
T}	 	T{
Sample a space time raster dataset at specific vector point coordinates and write the output to stdout using different layouts
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast3d.algebra
T}	 	T{
Apply temporal and spatial operations on space time 3D raster datasets using temporal 3D raster algebra.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast3d.extract
T}	 	T{
Extracts a subset of a space time 3D raster dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast3d.list
T}	 	T{
Lists registered maps of a space time raster3d dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast3d.mapcalc
T}	 	T{
Performs r3.mapcalc expressions on maps of sampled space time 3D raster datasets.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast3d.univar
T}	 	T{
Calculates univariate statistics from the non\-null cells for each registered 3D raster map of a space time 3D raster dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.register
T}	 	T{
Assigns timestamps and registers raster, vector and raster3d maps in a space time dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.remove
T}	 	T{
Removes space time datasets from temporal database.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rename
T}	 	T{
Renames a space time dataset
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.sample
T}	 	T{
Samples the input space time dataset(s) with a sample space time dataset and print the result to stdout.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.select
T}	 	T{
Select maps from space time datasets by topological relationships to other space time datasets using temporal algebra.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.shift
T}	 	T{
Shifts temporally the maps of a space time dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.snap
T}	 	T{
Snaps temporally the maps of a space time dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.support
T}	 	T{
Modifies the metadata of a space time dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.topology
T}	 	T{
Lists temporal topology of a space time dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.unregister
T}	 	T{
Unregisters raster, vector and raster3d maps from the temporal database or a specific space time dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.vect.algebra
T}	 	T{
Apply temporal and spatial operations on space time vector datasets using temporal vector algebra.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.vect.db.select
T}	 	T{
Prints attributes of vector maps registered in a space time vector dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.vect.export
T}	 	T{
Exports a space time vector dataset as GRASS GIS specific archive file.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.vect.extract
T}	 	T{
Extracts a subset of a space time vector dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.vect.import
T}	 	T{
Imports a space time vector dataset from a GRASS GIS specific archive file.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.vect.list
T}	 	T{
Lists registered maps of a space time vector dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.vect.observe.strds
T}	 	T{
Observes specific locations in a space time raster dataset over a period of time using vector points.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.vect.univar
T}	 	T{
Calculates univariate statistics of attributes for each registered vector map of a space time vector dataset
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.vect.what.strds
T}	 	T{
Stores raster map values at spatial and temporal positions of vector points as vector attributes.
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
