.TH topic_statistics 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH Topic: statistics
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
d.correlate
T}	 	T{
Prints a graph of the correlation between raster maps (in pairs).
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.univar
T}	 	T{
Calculates univariate statistics on selected table column.
T}
.sp 1
T{
i.cca
T}	 	T{
Canonical components analysis (CCA) program for image processing.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.clump
T}	 	T{
Recategorizes data in a raster map by grouping cells that form physically discrete areas into unique categories.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.coin
T}	 	T{
Tabulates the mutual occurrence (coincidence) of categories for two raster map layers.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.covar
T}	 	T{
Outputs a covariance/correlation matrix for user\-specified raster map layer(s).
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.cross
T}	 	T{
Creates a cross product of the category values from multiple raster map layers.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.kappa
T}	 	T{
Calculates error matrix and kappa parameter for accuracy assessment of classification result.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.mode
T}	 	T{
Finds the mode of values in a cover map within areas assigned the same category value in a user\-specified base map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.quant
T}	 	T{
Produces the quantization file for a floating\-point map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.reclass.area
T}	 	T{
Reclasses a raster map greater or less than user specified area size (in hectares).
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.regression.line
T}	 	T{
Calculates linear regression from two raster maps: y = a + b*x.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.regression.multi
T}	 	T{
Calculates multiple linear regression from raster maps.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.report
T}	 	T{
Reports statistics for raster maps.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.statistics
T}	 	T{
Calculates category or object oriented statistics.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.stats
T}	 	T{
Generates area statistics for raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.stats.quantile
T}	 	T{
Compute category quantiles using two passes.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.stats.zonal
T}	 	T{
Calculates category or object oriented statistics (accumulator\-based statistics).
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.support.stats
T}	 	T{
Update raster map statistics
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.univar
T}	 	T{
Calculates univariate statistics from the non\-null cells of a raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.stats
T}	 	T{
Generates volume statistics for 3D raster maps.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.univar
T}	 	T{
Calculates univariate statistics from the non\-null cells of a 3D raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.univar
T}	 	T{
Calculates univariate statistics from the non\-null cells for each registered raster map of a space time raster dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast3d.univar
T}	 	T{
Calculates univariate statistics from the non\-null cells for each registered 3D raster map of a space time 3D raster dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.vect.univar
T}	 	T{
Calculates univariate statistics of attributes for each registered vector map of a space time vector dataset
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.db.univar
T}	 	T{
Calculates univariate statistics on selected table column for a GRASS vector map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.kcv
T}	 	T{
Randomly partition points into test/train sets.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.normal
T}	 	T{
Tests for normality for vector points.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.outlier
T}	 	T{
Removes outliers from vector point data.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.qcount
T}	 	T{
Indices for quadrat counts of vector point lists.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.rast.stats
T}	 	T{
Calculates univariate statistics from a raster map based on a vector map and uploads statistics to new attribute columns.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.univar
T}	 	T{
Calculates univariate statistics of vector map features.
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
\fISee also the corresponding keyword statistics for additional references.\fR
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
