.TH topic_GUI 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC1" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH Topic: GUI
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
g.gui.animation
T}	 	T{
Tool for animating a series of raster and vector maps or a space time raster or vector dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.datacatalog
T}	 	T{
Tool for browsing, modifying and managing GRASS maps.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.dbmgr
T}	 	T{
Launches graphical attribute table manager.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.gcp
T}	 	T{
Georectifies a map and allows managing Ground Control Points.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.gmodeler
T}	 	T{
Graphical Modeler.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui
T}	 	T{
Launches a GRASS graphical user interface (GUI) session.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.iclass
T}	 	T{
Tool for supervised classification of imagery data.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.image2target
T}	 	T{
Georectifies a map and allows managing Ground Control Points for 3D correction.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.mapswipe
T}	 	T{
Interactively compares two maps by swiping a visibility bar.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.photo2image
T}	 	T{
Corrects scanning distortions of a paper photo.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.psmap
T}	 	T{
Tool for creating hardcopy map outputs.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.rlisetup
T}	 	T{
Configuration tool for r.li modules.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.timeline
T}	 	T{
Allows comparing temporal datasets by displaying their temporal extents in a plot.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.tplot
T}	 	T{
Plots the values of temporal datasets.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.gui.vdigit
T}	 	T{
Interactive editing and digitization of vector maps.
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
\fISee also the corresponding keyword GUI for additional references.\fR
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC1 Reference Manual
