.TH topic_surface 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC1" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH Topic: surface
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
r.contour
T}	 	T{
Produces a vector map of specified contours from a raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.fill.stats
T}	 	T{
Rapidly fills \(cqno data\(cq cells (NULLs) of a raster map with interpolated values (IDW).
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.fillnulls
T}	 	T{
Fills no\-data areas in raster maps using spline interpolation.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.random.surface
T}	 	T{
Generates random surface(s) with spatial dependence.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.resamp.bspline
T}	 	T{
Performs bilinear or bicubic spline interpolation with Tykhonov regularization.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.surf.area
T}	 	T{
Prints estimation of surface area for raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.surf.contour
T}	 	T{
Generates surface raster map from rasterized contours.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.surf.fractal
T}	 	T{
Creates a fractal surface of a given fractal dimension.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.surf.gauss
T}	 	T{
Generates a raster map using gaussian random number generator.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.surf.idw
T}	 	T{
Provides surface interpolation from raster point data by Inverse Distance Squared Weighting.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.surf.random
T}	 	T{
Produces a raster surface map of uniform random deviates with defined range.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.surf.bspline
T}	 	T{
Performs bicubic or bilinear spline interpolation with Tykhonov regularization.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.surf.idw
T}	 	T{
Provides surface interpolation from vector point data by Inverse Distance Squared Weighting.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.surf.rst
T}	 	T{
Performs surface interpolation from vector points map by splines.
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
\fISee also the corresponding keyword surface for additional references.\fR
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC1 Reference Manual
