.TH topic_cartography 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC1" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH Topic: cartography
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
d.barscale
T}	 	T{
Displays a barscale on the graphics monitor.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.graph
T}	 	T{
Program for generating and displaying simple graphics on the display monitor.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.grid
T}	 	T{
Overlays a user\-specified grid in the active display frame on the graphics monitor.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.legend
T}	 	T{
Displays a legend for a 2D or 3D raster map in the active frame of the graphics monitor.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.legend.vect
T}	 	T{
Displays a vector legend in the active graphics frame.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.linegraph
T}	 	T{
Generates and displays simple line graphs in the active graphics monitor display frame.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.northarrow
T}	 	T{
Displays a north arrow on the graphics monitor.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.rast.leg
T}	 	T{
Displays a raster map and its legend on a graphics window
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.text
T}	 	T{
Draws text in the active display frame on the graphics monitor using the current font.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.title
T}	 	T{
Create a TITLE for a raster map in a form suitable for display with d.text.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.vect.chart
T}	 	T{
Displays charts of vector data in the active frame on the graphics monitor.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.vect.thematic
T}	 	T{
Displays a thematic vector map in the active graphics frame.
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
\fISee also the corresponding keyword cartography for additional references.\fR
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC1 Reference Manual
