.TH topic_hydrology 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC1" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH Topic: hydrology
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
r.basins.fill
T}	 	T{
Generates watershed subbasins raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.carve
T}	 	T{
Generates stream channels.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.drain
T}	 	T{
Traces a flow through an elevation model or cost surface on a raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.fill.dir
T}	 	T{
Filters and generates a depressionless elevation map and a flow direction map from a given elevation raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.flow
T}	 	T{
Constructs flowlines.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.lake
T}	 	T{
Fills lake at given point to given level.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.path
T}	 	T{
Traces paths from starting points following input directions.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.sim.sediment
T}	 	T{
Sediment transport and erosion/deposition simulation using path sampling method (SIMWE).
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.sim.water
T}	 	T{
Overland flow hydrologic simulation using path sampling method (SIMWE).
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.solute.transport
T}	 	T{
Numerical calculation program for transient, confined and unconfined solute transport in two dimensions
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.stream.extract
T}	 	T{
Performs stream network extraction.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.terraflow
T}	 	T{
Performs flow computation for massive grids.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.topidx
T}	 	T{
Creates a topographic index (wetness index) raster map from an elevation raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.topmodel
T}	 	T{
Simulates TOPMODEL which is a physically based hydrologic model.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.uslek
T}	 	T{
Computes USLE Soil Erodibility Factor (K).
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.usler
T}	 	T{
Computes USLE R factor, Rainfall erosivity index.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.water.outlet
T}	 	T{
Creates watershed basins from a drainage direction map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.watershed
T}	 	T{
Calculates hydrological parameters and RUSLE factors.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.flow
T}	 	T{
Computes 3D flow lines and 3D flow accumulation.
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
\fISee also the corresponding keyword hydrology for additional references.\fR
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC1 Reference Manual
