.TH topic_export 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC1" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH Topic: export
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
d.out.file
T}	 	T{
Saves the contents of the active display monitor to a graphics file.
T}
.sp 1
T{
d.to.rast
T}	 	T{
Saves the contents of the active display monitor to a raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.out.ogr
T}	 	T{
Exports attribute tables into various formats.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.external.out
T}	 	T{
Redirects raster output to file utilizing GDAL library rather than storing in GRASS raster format.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.out.ascii
T}	 	T{
Converts a raster map layer into a GRASS ASCII text file.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.out.bin
T}	 	T{
Exports a GRASS raster to a binary array.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.out.gdal
T}	 	T{
Exports GRASS raster maps into GDAL supported formats.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.out.gridatb
T}	 	T{
Exports GRASS raster map to GRIDATB.FOR map file (TOPMODEL).
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.out.mat
T}	 	T{
Exports a GRASS raster to a binary MAT\-File.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.out.mpeg
T}	 	T{
Converts raster map series to MPEG movie.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.out.png
T}	 	T{
Export a GRASS raster map as a non\-georeferenced PNG image.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.out.pov
T}	 	T{
Converts a raster map layer into a height\-field file for POV\-Ray.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.out.ppm
T}	 	T{
Converts a GRASS raster map to a PPM image file.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.out.ppm3
T}	 	T{
Converts 3 GRASS raster layers (R,G,B) to a PPM image file.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.out.vrml
T}	 	T{
Exports a raster map to the Virtual Reality Modeling Language (VRML).
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.out.vtk
T}	 	T{
Converts raster maps into the VTK\-ASCII format.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.out.xyz
T}	 	T{
Exports a raster map to a text file as x,y,z values based on cell centers.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.pack
T}	 	T{
Exports a raster map as GRASS GIS specific archive file
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.out.ascii
T}	 	T{
Converts a 3D raster map layer into a ASCII text file.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.out.bin
T}	 	T{
Exports a GRASS 3D raster map to a binary array.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.out.v5d
T}	 	T{
Exports GRASS 3D raster map to 3\-dimensional Vis5D file.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.out.vtk
T}	 	T{
Converts 3D raster maps into the VTK\-ASCII format.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.export
T}	 	T{
Exports space time raster dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.out.vtk
T}	 	T{
Exports space time raster dataset as VTK time series.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.vect.export
T}	 	T{
Exports a space time vector dataset as GRASS GIS specific archive file.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.external.out
T}	 	T{
Defines vector output format.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.out.ascii
T}	 	T{
Exports a vector map to a GRASS ASCII vector representation.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.out.dxf
T}	 	T{
Exports vector map to DXF file format.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.out.lidar
T}	 	T{
Exports vector points as LAS point cloud
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.out.ogr
T}	 	T{
Exports a vector map layer to any of the supported OGR vector formats.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.out.postgis
T}	 	T{
Exports a vector map layer to PostGIS feature table.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.out.pov
T}	 	T{
Converts GRASS x,y,z points to POV\-Ray x,z,y format.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.out.svg
T}	 	T{
Exports a vector map to SVG file.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.out.vtk
T}	 	T{
Converts a vector map to VTK ASCII output.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.pack
T}	 	T{
Exports a vector map as GRASS GIS specific archive file
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
\fISee also the corresponding keyword export for additional references.\fR
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC1 Reference Manual
