.TH topic_sampling 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH Topic: sampling
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
d.where
T}	 	T{
Identifies the geographic coordinates associated with point locations given in display coordinates.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.random.cells
T}	 	T{
Generates random cell values with spatial dependence.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.random
T}	 	T{
Creates a raster map layer and vector point map containing randomly located points.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.what
T}	 	T{
Sample a space time raster dataset at specific vector point coordinates and write the output to stdout using different layouts
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.sample
T}	 	T{
Samples the input space time dataset(s) with a sample space time dataset and print the result to stdout.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.vect.observe.strds
T}	 	T{
Observes specific locations in a space time raster dataset over a period of time using vector points.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.vect.what.strds
T}	 	T{
Stores raster map values at spatial and temporal positions of vector points as vector attributes.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.random
T}	 	T{
Generates random 2D/3D vector points.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.sample
T}	 	T{
Samples a raster map at vector point locations.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.what.rast
T}	 	T{
Uploads raster values at positions of vector points to the table.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.what.rast3
T}	 	T{
Uploads 3D raster values at positions of vector points to the table.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.what.vect
T}	 	T{
Uploads vector values at positions of vector points to the table.
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
\fISee also the corresponding keyword sampling for additional references.\fR
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
