.TH topic_algebra 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH Topic: algebra
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
r.mapcalc
T}	 	T{
Raster map calculator.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.mapcalc.simple
T}	 	T{
Calculates a new raster map from a simple r.mapcalc expression.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.mfilter
T}	 	T{
Performs raster map matrix filter.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.neighbors
T}	 	T{
Makes each cell category value a function of the category values assigned to the cells around it, and stores new cell values in an output raster map layer.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.quantile
T}	 	T{
Compute quantiles using two passes.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.texture
T}	 	T{
Generate images with textural features from a raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.mapcalc
T}	 	T{
Raster map calculator.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.neighbors
T}	 	T{
Makes each voxel value a function of the values assigned to the voxels around it, and stores new voxel values in an output 3D raster map
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.algebra
T}	 	T{
Apply temporal and spatial operations on space time raster datasets using temporal raster algebra.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.mapcalc
T}	 	T{
Performs spatio\-temporal mapcalc expressions on temporally sampled maps of space time raster datasets.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast3d.algebra
T}	 	T{
Apply temporal and spatial operations on space time 3D raster datasets using temporal 3D raster algebra.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast3d.mapcalc
T}	 	T{
Performs r3.mapcalc expressions on maps of sampled space time 3D raster datasets.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.vect.algebra
T}	 	T{
Apply temporal and spatial operations on space time vector datasets using temporal vector algebra.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.neighbors
T}	 	T{
Neighborhood analysis tool for vector point maps.
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
\fISee also the corresponding keyword algebra for additional references.\fR
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
