.TH topic_metadata 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH Topic: metadata
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
r.describe
T}	 	T{
Prints terse list of category values found in a raster map layer.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.info
T}	 	T{
Outputs basic information about a raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.region
T}	 	T{
Sets the boundary definitions for a raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.support
T}	 	T{
Allows creation and/or modification of raster map layer support files.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.timestamp
T}	 	T{
Modifies a timestamp for a raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.info
T}	 	T{
Outputs basic information about a user\-specified 3D raster map layer.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.support
T}	 	T{
Allows creation and/or modification of 3D raster map layer support files.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.timestamp
T}	 	T{
Modifies a timestamp for a 3D raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.downgrade
T}	 	T{
Downgrades the version of a space time dataset (TGRASS DB).
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.info
T}	 	T{
Lists information about space time datasets and maps.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.select
T}	 	T{
Select maps from space time datasets by topological relationships to other space time datasets using temporal algebra.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.support
T}	 	T{
Modifies the metadata of a space time dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.info
T}	 	T{
Outputs basic information about a vector map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.support
T}	 	T{
Updates vector map metadata.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.timestamp
T}	 	T{
Modifies a timestamp for a vector map.
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
\fISee also the corresponding keyword metadata for additional references.\fR
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
