.TH topic_network 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH Topic: network
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
d.path
T}	 	T{
Finds shortest path for selected starting and ending node.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.net.alloc
T}	 	T{
Allocates subnets for nearest centers.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.net.allpairs
T}	 	T{
Computes the shortest path between all pairs of nodes in the network.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.net.bridge
T}	 	T{
Computes bridges and articulation points in the network.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.net.centrality
T}	 	T{
Computes degree, centrality, betweeness, closeness and eigenvector centrality measures in the network.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.net.components
T}	 	T{
Computes strongly and weakly connected components in the network.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.net.connectivity
T}	 	T{
Computes vertex connectivity between two sets of nodes in the network.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.net.distance
T}	 	T{
Computes shortest distance via the network between the given sets of features.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.net.flow
T}	 	T{
Computes the maximum flow between two sets of nodes in the network.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.net
T}	 	T{
Performs network maintenance.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.net.iso
T}	 	T{
Splits subnets for nearest centers by cost isolines.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.net.path
T}	 	T{
Finds shortest path on vector network.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.net.salesman
T}	 	T{
Creates a cycle connecting given nodes (Traveling salesman problem).
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.net.spanningtree
T}	 	T{
Computes minimum spanning tree for the network.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.net.steiner
T}	 	T{
Creates Steiner tree for the network and given terminals.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.net.timetable
T}	 	T{
Finds shortest path using timetables.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.net.visibility
T}	 	T{
Performs visibility graph construction.
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
\fISee also the corresponding keyword network for additional references.\fR
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
