.TH topic_geometry 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH Topic: geometry
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
i.image.mosaic
T}	 	T{
Mosaics several images and extends colormap.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.patch
T}	 	T{
Creates a composite raster map layer by using known category values from one (or more) map layer(s) to fill in areas of \(dqno data\(dq in another map layer.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.thin
T}	 	T{
Thins non\-null cells that denote linear features in a raster map layer.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.delaunay
T}	 	T{
Creates a Delaunay triangulation from an input vector map containing points or centroids.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.drape
T}	 	T{
Converts 2D vector features to 3D by sampling of elevation raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.edit
T}	 	T{
Edits a vector map, allows adding, deleting and modifying selected vector features.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.extrude
T}	 	T{
Extrudes flat vector features to 3D vector features with defined height.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.hull
T}	 	T{
Produces a 2D/3D convex hull for a given vector map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.in.region
T}	 	T{
Creates a vector polygon from the current region extent.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.mkgrid
T}	 	T{
Creates a vector map of a user\-defined grid.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.overlay
T}	 	T{
Overlays two vector maps offering clip, intersection, difference, symmetrical difference, union operators.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.parallel
T}	 	T{
Creates parallel line to input vector lines.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.patch
T}	 	T{
Creates a new vector map by combining other vector maps.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.perturb
T}	 	T{
Random location perturbations of vector points.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.report
T}	 	T{
Reports geometry statistics for vector maps.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.segment
T}	 	T{
Creates points/segments from input vector lines and positions.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.select
T}	 	T{
Selects features from vector map (A) by features from other vector map (B).
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.split
T}	 	T{
Splits vector lines to shorter segments.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.to.3d
T}	 	T{
Performs transformation of 2D vector features to 3D.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.to.lines
T}	 	T{
Converts vector polygons or points to lines.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.to.points
T}	 	T{
Creates points along input lines in new vector map with 2 layers.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.type
T}	 	T{
Changes type of vector features.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.voronoi
T}	 	T{
Creates a Voronoi diagram constrained to the extents of the current region from an input vector map containing points or centroids.
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
\fISee also the corresponding keyword geometry for additional references.\fR
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
