.TH topic_map_management 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH Topic: map management
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
g.access
T}	 	T{
Controls access to the current mapset for other users on the system.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.copy
T}	 	T{
Copies available data files in the current mapset search path to the user\(cqs current mapset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.dirseps
T}	 	T{
Internal GRASS utility for converting directory separator characters.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.filename
T}	 	T{
Prints GRASS data base file names.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.findetc
T}	 	T{
Searches for GRASS support files.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.findfile
T}	 	T{
Searches for GRASS data base files and sets variables for the shell.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.list
T}	 	T{
Lists available GRASS data base files of the user\-specified data type optionally using the search pattern.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.remove
T}	 	T{
Removes data base element files from the user\(cqs current mapset using the search pattern.
T}
.sp 1
T{
g.rename
T}	 	T{
Renames data base element files in the user\(cqs current mapset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
i.group
T}	 	T{
Creates, edits, and lists groups of imagery data.
T}
.sp 1
T{
i.target
T}	 	T{
Targets an imagery group to a GRASS location and mapset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.compress
T}	 	T{
Compresses and decompresses raster maps.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.create
T}	 	T{
Creates a space time dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.list
T}	 	T{
Lists space time datasets and maps registered in the temporal database.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.list
T}	 	T{
Lists registered maps of a space time raster dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast3d.list
T}	 	T{
Lists registered maps of a space time raster3d dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.register
T}	 	T{
Assigns timestamps and registers raster, vector and raster3d maps in a space time dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.remove
T}	 	T{
Removes space time datasets from temporal database.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rename
T}	 	T{
Renames a space time dataset
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.unregister
T}	 	T{
Unregisters raster, vector and raster3d maps from the temporal database or a specific space time dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.vect.list
T}	 	T{
Lists registered maps of a space time vector dataset.
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
\fISee also the corresponding keyword map management for additional references.\fR
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
