.TH topic_import 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC1" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH Topic: import
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
db.in.ogr
T}	 	T{
Imports attribute tables in various formats.
T}
.sp 1
T{
i.in.spotvgt
T}	 	T{
Imports SPOT VGT NDVI data into a raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.external
T}	 	T{
Links GDAL supported raster data as a pseudo GRASS raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.import
T}	 	T{
Imports raster data into a GRASS raster map using GDAL library and reprojects on the fly.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.in.ascii
T}	 	T{
Converts a GRASS ASCII raster file to binary raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.in.aster
T}	 	T{
Georeference, rectify, and import Terra\-ASTER imagery and relative DEMs using gdalwarp.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.in.bin
T}	 	T{
Import a binary raster file into a GRASS raster map layer.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.in.gdal
T}	 	T{
Imports raster data into a GRASS raster map using GDAL library.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.in.gridatb
T}	 	T{
Imports GRIDATB.FOR map file (TOPMODEL) into a GRASS raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.in.lidar
T}	 	T{
Creates a raster map from LAS LiDAR points using univariate statistics.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.in.mat
T}	 	T{
Imports a binary MAT\-File(v4) to a GRASS raster.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.in.png
T}	 	T{
Imports non\-georeferenced PNG format image.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.in.poly
T}	 	T{
Creates raster maps from ASCII polygon/line/point data files.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.in.srtm
T}	 	T{
Imports SRTM HGT files into raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.in.wms
T}	 	T{
Downloads and imports data from OGC WMS and OGC WMTS web mapping servers.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.in.xyz
T}	 	T{
Creates a raster map from an assemblage of many coordinates using univariate statistics.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r.unpack
T}	 	T{
Imports a GRASS GIS specific raster archive file (packed with r.pack) as a raster map
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.in.ascii
T}	 	T{
Converts a 3D ASCII raster text file into a (binary) 3D raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.in.bin
T}	 	T{
Imports a binary raster file into a GRASS 3D raster map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.in.lidar
T}	 	T{
Creates a 3D raster map from LAS LiDAR points using univariate statistics.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.in.v5d
T}	 	T{
Import 3\-dimensional Vis5D files.
T}
.sp 1
T{
r3.in.xyz
T}	 	T{
Create a 3D raster map from an assemblage of many coordinates using univariate statistics
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.rast.import
T}	 	T{
Imports space time raster dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.vect.import
T}	 	T{
Imports a space time vector dataset from a GRASS GIS specific archive file.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.external
T}	 	T{
Creates a new pseudo\-vector map as a link to an OGR\-supported layer or a PostGIS feature table.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.import
T}	 	T{
Imports vector data into a GRASS vector map using OGR library and reprojects on the fly.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.in.ascii
T}	 	T{
Creates a vector map from an ASCII points file or ASCII vector file.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.in.db
T}	 	T{
Creates new vector (points) map from database table containing coordinates.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.in.dxf
T}	 	T{
Converts file in DXF format to GRASS vector map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.in.e00
T}	 	T{
Imports E00 file into a vector map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.in.geonames
T}	 	T{
Imports geonames.org country files into a vector points map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.in.lidar
T}	 	T{
Converts LAS LiDAR point clouds to a GRASS vector map with libLAS.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.in.lines
T}	 	T{
Imports ASCII x,y[,z] coordinates as a series of lines.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.in.mapgen
T}	 	T{
Imports Mapgen or Matlab\-ASCII vector maps into GRASS.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.in.ogr
T}	 	T{
Imports vector data into a GRASS vector map using OGR library.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.in.wfs
T}	 	T{
Imports GetFeature from a WFS server.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.unpack
T}	 	T{
Imports a GRASS GIS specific vector archive file (packed with v.pack) as a vector map
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
\fISee also the corresponding keyword import for additional references.\fR
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC1 Reference Manual
