.TH topic_attribute_table 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH Topic: attribute table
.TS
expand;
lw60 lw1 lw60.
T{
db.columns
T}	 	T{
List all columns for a given table.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.connect
T}	 	T{
Prints/sets general DB connection for current mapset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.copy
T}	 	T{
Copy a table.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.createdb
T}	 	T{
Creates an empty database.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.databases
T}	 	T{
Lists all databases for a given driver and location.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.describe
T}	 	T{
Describes a table in detail.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.dropcolumn
T}	 	T{
Drops a column from selected attribute table.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.dropdb
T}	 	T{
Removes an existing database.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.droptable
T}	 	T{
Drops an attribute table.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.execute
T}	 	T{
Executes any SQL statement.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.select
T}	 	T{
Selects data from attribute table.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.tables
T}	 	T{
Lists all tables for a given database.
T}
.sp 1
T{
db.test
T}	 	T{
Test database driver, database must exist and set by db.connect.
T}
.sp 1
T{
t.vect.db.select
T}	 	T{
Prints attributes of vector maps registered in a space time vector dataset.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.db.addcolumn
T}	 	T{
Adds one or more columns to the attribute table connected to a given vector map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.db.addtable
T}	 	T{
Creates and connects a new attribute table to a given layer of an existing vector map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.db.connect
T}	 	T{
Prints/sets DB connection for a vector map to attribute table.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.db.dropcolumn
T}	 	T{
Drops a column from the attribute table connected to a given vector map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.db.droprow
T}	 	T{
Removes a vector feature from a vector map through attribute selection.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.db.droptable
T}	 	T{
Removes existing attribute table of a vector map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.db.join
T}	 	T{
Joins a database table to a vector map table.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.db.reconnect.all
T}	 	T{
Reconnects attribute tables for all vector maps from the current mapset to a new database.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.db.renamecolumn
T}	 	T{
Renames a column in the attribute table connected to a given vector map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.db.select
T}	 	T{
Prints vector map attributes.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.db.update
T}	 	T{
Updates a column in the attribute table connected to a vector map.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.to.db
T}	 	T{
Populates attribute values from vector features.
T}
.sp 1
T{
v.vect.stats
T}	 	T{
Count points in areas, calculate statistics from point attributes.
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.PP
\fISee also the corresponding keyword attribute table for additional references.\fR
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
