.TH v.clip 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.clip.py\fR\fR  \- Extracts features of input map which overlay features of clip map.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, clip, area
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.clip.py\fR
.br
\fBv.clip.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.clip.py\fR [\-\fBdr\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBclip\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-d\fR" 4m
.br
Do not dissolve clip map
.IP "\fB\-r\fR" 4m
.br
Clip by region
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of vector map to be clipped
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBclip\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of clip vector map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output vector map
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.clip\fR module enables extracting those features of input
vector map, which overlay features of clip map, as well as their
storing in a new vector map.
.PP
In default, boundaries of clip map are dissolved before
clipping. Alternatively, flag \fB\-d\fR can be ticked to retain the
boundaries of clip map. Flag \fB\-b\fR facilitates clipping by current
computational region.
.PP
It is possible to clip vector maps consisting of points, lines,
areas or combinations of these. However, the current version does not
fully support clipping of mixed geometry containing points. In such a
case, the output map will only store clipped lines and/or areas.
.SH NOTES
\fIv.clip\fR is a front\-end
to \fIv.overlay\fR, as well
as \fIv.select\fR. Clipping of areas
and/or lines can be achieved
using \fIv.overlay\fR. Clipping of
points can be performed
with \fIv.select\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Basic use
Clip railroads by counties Wake and Johnston in North Carolina (North
Carolina data set).
.br
.nf
\fC
v.extract input=boundary_county where=\(dqNAME=\(cqWAKE\(cq OR NAME=\(cqJOHNSTON\(cq\(dq output=county_WAKE_JOHNSTON
v.clip input=railroads clip=county_WAKE_JOHNSTON output=railroads_WAKE_JOHNSTON
\fR
.fi
.br
\fIFigure: v.clip example \- basic use\fR
.SS Retain boundaries of clip map
.br
.nf
\fC
v.clip \-d input=railroads clip=county_WAKE_JOHNSTON output=railroads_WAKE_JOHNSTON
\fR
.fi
.SS Clip by current computational region
Clip hospitals by computational region adjusted to counties Wake and
Johnston in North Carolina (North Carolina data set).
It is not obligatory to enter name of clip map. In case it is stated,
the clip map will be omitted.
.br
.nf
\fC
v.extract input=boundary_county where=\(dqNAME=\(cqWAKE\(cq OR NAME=\(cqJOHNSTON\(cq\(dq output=county_WAKE_JOHNSTON
v.clip \-r input=hospitals output=hospitals_clip
\fR
.fi
.br
\fIFigure: v.clip example \- clip by computational region\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
v.overlay,
v.select,
v.dissolve,
v.in.region
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Zofie Cimburova, GeoForAll
Lab, Czech Technical University in Prague, Czech Republic
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
v.clip source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
