.TH v.db.renamecolumn 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.db.renamecolumn.py\fR\fR  \- Renames a column in the attribute table connected to a given vector map.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, attribute table, database, rename
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.db.renamecolumn.py\fR
.br
\fBv.db.renamecolumn.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.db.renamecolumn.py\fR \fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR]  \fBcolumn\fR=\fIoldcol,newcol\fR  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of vector map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number or name
.br
Vector features can have category values in different layers. This number determines which layer to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBcolumn\fR=\fIoldcol,newcol\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Old and new name of the column (old,new)
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.db.renamecolumn\fR renames a column in the attribute table connected
to a given vector map. It automatically checks the connection for the specified
layer.
.SH NOTES
If the map table is connected through the DBF or SQLite drivers, the renaming
is internally done by adding a new column with new name, transferring the contents
of the old column to the new column and dropping the old column. This is needed
as DBF or SQLite do not support \(dqALTER TABLE\(dq command to rename columns. Due to
this the renamed column is found as last column of the table, it\(cqs original position
cannot be maintained.
.PP
The SQLite driver will exit with an error if the column rename involves only a change of
case, i.e., upper\-to\-lowercase, or lower\-to\-uppercase. The SQLite protocol considers \(dqNAME\(dq
and \(dqname\(dq to be identical column names. In cases like these, the user should rename the original
column to an intermediary name, then rename the intermediary to the final name.
.SH EXAMPLES
Renaming a column:
.br
.br
.nf
\fC
g.copy vect=roadsmajor,myroads
v.info \-c myroads
v.db.renamecolumn myroads column=ROAD_NAME,roadname
v.info \-c myroads
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
db.execute,
v.db.addcolumn,
v.db.addtable,
v.db.connect,
v.db.dropcolumn,
v.db.droptable,
v.db.select,
v.db.update
.br
GRASS SQL interface
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Markus Neteler
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
v.db.renamecolumn source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
