.TH v.db.reconnect.all 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.db.reconnect.all.py\fR\fR  \- Reconnects attribute tables for all vector maps from the current mapset to a new database.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, attribute table, database
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.db.reconnect.all.py\fR
.br
\fBv.db.reconnect.all.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.db.reconnect.all.py\fR [\-\fBcd\fR]  [\fBold_database\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBold_schema\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBnew_driver\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBnew_database\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBnew_schema\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 4m
.br
Copy attribute tables to the target database if not exist
.IP "\fB\-d\fR" 4m
.br
Delete attribute tables from the source database
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBold_database\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of source database
.IP "\fBold_schema\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of source database schema
.br
Do not use this option if schemas are not supported by driver/database server
.IP "\fBnew_driver\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Name for target driver
.IP "\fBnew_database\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for target database
.IP "\fBnew_schema\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for target database schema
.br
Do not use this option if schemas are not supported by driver/database server
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.db.reconnect.all\fR changes database connection of all layers
of all vector maps in the current mapset from the source
(\fBold_database\fR) to the target (\fBnew_database\fR) database. If
a link does not match the \fBold_database\fR it is left untouched.
.PP
If no new database is given, the default datase of the mapset is used as
printed by db.connect \-g. If no old database is given, all
layers without a link in the new database will be liniked to the new
database. If an old database is given, only links in the old database
will be changed.
.PP
Optionally attribute tables in \fBnew_database\fR can be created if
not exist by \fB\-c\fR flag. In this case \fIv.db.reconnect.all\fR
also tries to create an index on key column (usually \(dqcat\(dq
column).
.SH NOTES
The value of the \fBold_database\fR option needs to be the exact
string which appears as the fourth field printed by
v.db.connect \-g.
.br
.nf
\fC
v.db.connect \-g map=census
1/census|census|cat|/home/user/grassdata/nc_spm_base/PERMANENT/dbf/|dbf
\fR
.fi
\fIv.db.reconnect.all\fR respect also variables to be
substituted. In the example above,
database /home/user/grassdata/nc_spm_base/PERMANENT/dbf/ can
be also defined as \(cq$GISDBASE/$LOCATION_NAME/$MAPSET/dbf/\(cq
(see examples).
.PP
Attribute tables from \fBold_database\fR are after reconnecting left
untouched. \fIv.db.reconnect.all\fR deletes those tables
automatically only when \fB\-d\fR flag is given.
.PP
Also note that \fIv.db.reconnect.all\fR doesn\(cqt change default
database driver or database (db.connect \-p). Default database
connection settings for newly created attribute data can be defined
by \fIdb.connect\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
In the examples below are assumed, that attribute tables are linked to
the vector maps through DBF database
driver.
.SS Reconnect DBF attribute tables to SQLite database
Reconnect DBF attribute tables linked to
the vector maps in the current mapset
to SQLite database:
.br
.nf
\fC
v.db.reconnect.all old_database=\(cq$GISDBASE/$LOCATION_NAME/$MAPSET/dbf/\(cq \(rs
 new_driver=sqlite new_database=\(cq$GISDBASE/$LOCATION_NAME/$MAPSET/sqlite/sqlite.db\(cq
\fR
.fi
If attribute table doesn\(cqt exist in the target database
(\fBnew_database\fR) then the module prints an error message.
.SS Convert DBF attribute tables to SQLite database
For coping DBF tables to SQLite database and reconnecting them for all
vector maps in the current mapset must be defined also \fB\-c\fR flag.
.br
.nf
\fC
v.db.reconnect.all \-c old_database=\(cq$GISDBASE/$LOCATION_NAME/$MAPSET/dbf/\(cq \(rs
 new_driver=sqlite new_database=\(cq$GISDBASE/$LOCATION_NAME/$MAPSET/sqlite/sqlite.db\(cq
\fR
.fi
or alternatively
.br
.nf
\fC
# set default connection (sqlite)
db.connect \-d
# verify default connection
db.connect \-g
# reconnect
v.db.reconnect.all \-c old_database=\(cq$GISDBASE/$LOCATION_NAME/$MAPSET/dbf/\(cq
\fR
.fi
To automatically remove original DBF attribute tables after
reconnecting the vector maps use \fB\-d\fR flag. Note that attribute
tables will be deleted \fIpermanently\fR from the source
database. This option should be used very carefully!
.SS Convert GRASS 6 vector map to GRASS 7 including attribute transfer from DBF to SQLite
To become usable in GRASS 7, all vector maps in a mapset need to be updated:
.br
.nf
\fC
# first rebuild topology for all vector maps
v.build.all
# set new default db connection (to SQLite default)
db.connect \-d
# copy attribute tables from old DB to new SQLite DB, delete old tables in DBF format
v.db.reconnect.all \-cd
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
v.db.connect,
db.connect,
db.copy,
db.createdb,
db.droptable
\fR
.PP
GRASS SQL interface
.SH AUTHORS
Radim Blazek
.br
Major update by Martin Landa, Czech Technical University in Prague, Czech Republic
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
v.db.reconnect.all source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
