.TH v.db.dropcolumn 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.db.dropcolumn.py\fR\fR  \- Drops a column from the attribute table connected to a given vector map.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, attribute table, database
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.db.dropcolumn.py\fR
.br
\fBv.db.dropcolumn.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.db.dropcolumn.py\fR \fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR]  \fBcolumns\fR=\fIname\fR[,\fIname\fR,...]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of vector map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number or name
.br
Vector features can have category values in different layers. This number determines which layer to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBcolumns\fR=\fIname[,\fIname\fR,...]\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of attribute column(s) to drop
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.db.dropcolumn\fR drops a column from the attribute table connected
to a given vector map. It automatically checks the connection for the specified
layer. \fIv.db.dropcolumn\fR omits to delete the \(cqcat\(cq column which is
relevant to keep the connection between vector map and table.
.SH NOTES
\fIv.db.dropcolumn\fR is a front\-end to \fIdb.execute\fR to allow easier usage.
.PP
The existing database connection(s) can be verified with \fIv.db.connect\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
Dropping a column:
.br
.br
.nf
\fC
g.copy vect=roadsmajor,myroads
v.info \-c myroads
v.db.dropcolumn myroads column=SHAPE_LEN
v.info \-c myroads
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
db.connect,
db.dropcolumn,
db.execute,
v.db.addcolumn,
v.db.connect,
v.db.droptable,
v.db.select,
v.db.update
.br
GRASS SQL interface
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Markus Neteler
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
v.db.dropcolumn source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
