.TH v.db.addtable 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.db.addtable.py\fR\fR  \- Creates and connects a new attribute table to a given layer of an existing vector map.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, attribute table, database
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.db.addtable.py\fR
.br
\fBv.db.addtable.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.db.addtable.py\fR \fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBtable\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBlayer\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\fBkey\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBcolumns\fR=\fIname type\fR[,\fIname type\fR,...]]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of vector map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBtable\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Name of new attribute table (default: vector map name)
.IP "\fBlayer\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number where to add new attribute table
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBkey\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of key column
.br
Must refer to an integer column
.br
Default: \fIcat\fR
.IP "\fBcolumns\fR=\fIname type[,\fIname type\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Name and type of the new column(s) (\(cqname type [,name type, ...]\(cq)
.br
Types depend on database backend, but all support VARCHAR(), INT, DOUBLE PRECISION and DATE. Example: \(cqlabel varchar(250), value integer\(cq
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.db.addtable\fR creates and adds a new attribute table to a given vector
map. It links the table to the specified layer of the vector map. If the vector
map is not yet linked to any table, new a database link is established based on
the MAPSET database settings (see \fIdb.connect\fR).
.SH NOTES
\fIv.db.addtable\fR is a front\-end to \fIdb.execute\fR to allow easier
usage.
.PP
\fIv.db.addtable\fR will only insert category values into the table for those features
which actually have a category value in the relevant layer. The user can add
category values automatically by using \fIv.category\fR or manually with
\fIwxGUI vector digitizer\fR
before running v.db.addtable. Or one can run v.db.addtable first
and then use either a combinatino of \fIv.category\fR + \fIv.to.db\fR or
\fIwxGUI vector digitizer\fR
to add the relevant lines to the table.
.PP
The supported types of columns depend on the database backend. However, all
backends should support VARCHAR, INT, DOUBLE PRECISION and DATE.
.PP
The existing database connection(s) can be verified with \fIv.db.connect\fR.
.SH EXAMPLE
Adding a new attribute table with a single column to default layer 1:
.br
.br
.nf
\fC
g.copy vect=roadsmajor,myroads
v.db.addtable myroads columns=\(dqslope double precision\(dq
v.db.connect \-p myroads
v.info \-c myroads
\fR
.fi
.PP
Adding a new attribute table with two columns to layer 2:
.br
.br
.nf
\fC
g.copy vect=roadsmajor,myroads
v.db.addtable myroads columns=\(dqslope double precision, roadname varchar(15)\(dq layer=2
v.db.connect \-p myroads
v.info \-c myroads
v.info \-c myroads layer=2
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
db.connect,
db.droptable,
db.execute,
v.db.connect,
v.db.dropcolumn,
v.db.droptable,
v.db.select,
v.db.update
.br
GRASS SQL interface
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Markus Neteler
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: v.db.addtable source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
