.TH v.delaunay 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.delaunay\fR\fR  \- Creates a Delaunay triangulation from an input vector map containing points or centroids.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, geometry, triangulation
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.delaunay\fR
.br
\fBv.delaunay \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.delaunay\fR [\-\fBrl\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR]  \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-r\fR" 4m
.br
Use only points in current region
.IP "\fB\-l\fR" 4m
.br
Output triangulation as a graph (lines), not areas
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input vector map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number or name (\(cq\-1\(cq for all layers)
.br
A single vector map can be connected to multiple database tables. This number determines which table to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI\-1\fR
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output vector map
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.delaunay\fR uses an existing vector points map (\fBinput\fR)
to create a Delaunay triangulation vector map (\fBoutput\fR).
.PP
Delaunay triangulation example (red\-yellow points are the data points from which the triangulation was generated):
.SH EXAMPLE
Commands used with the North Carolina dataset to create the above figure (subset shown in figure).
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region n=220750 s=219950 w=638300 e=639000 \-p
v.delaunay input=elev_lid792_randpts output=elev_lid792_randpts_delaunay
\fR
.fi
.SH REFERENCES
\fILeonid Guibas and Jorge Stolfi, (1985). Primitives for the
Manipulation of General Subdivisions and the Computation of
Voronoi Diagrams, ACM Transactions on Graphics, Vol 4, No. 2,
April 1985, Pages 74\-123
\fR
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
v.voronoi,
v.hull
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Martin Pavlovsky, Google Summer of Code 2008, Student
.br
Paul Kelly, Mentor
.br
Based on \(dqdct\(dq by Geoff Leach, Department of Computer Science, RMIT.
.br
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: v.delaunay source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
