.TH v.drape 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.drape\fR\fR  \- Converts 2D vector features to 3D by sampling of elevation raster map.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, geometry, sampling, 3D, surface information
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.drape\fR
.br
\fBv.drape \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.drape\fR \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBcats\fR=\fIrange\fR]   [\fBwhere\fR=\fIsql_query\fR]   [\fBtype\fR=\fIstring\fR[,\fIstring\fR,...]]  \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBelevation\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBmethod\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBscale\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBnull_value\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input vector map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number or name (\(cq\-1\(cq for all layers)
.br
A single vector map can be connected to multiple database tables. This number determines which table to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI\-1\fR
.IP "\fBcats\fR=\fIrange\fR" 4m
.br
Category values
.br
Example: 1,3,7\-9,13
.IP "\fBwhere\fR=\fIsql_query\fR" 4m
.br
WHERE conditions of SQL statement without \(cqwhere\(cq keyword
.br
Example: income < 1000 and population >= 10000
.IP "\fBtype\fR=\fIstring[,\fIstring\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Input feature type
.br
Options: \fIpoint, line, boundary, centroid\fR
.br
Default: \fIpoint,line,boundary,centroid\fR
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output vector map
.IP "\fBelevation\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Elevation raster map for height extraction
.IP "\fBmethod\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Sampling interpolation method
.br
Options: \fInearest, bilinear, bicubic\fR
.br
Default: \fInearest\fR
.br
\fBnearest\fR: Nearest\-neighbor interpolation
.br
\fBbilinear\fR: Bilinear interpolation
.br
\fBbicubic\fR: Bicubic interpolation
.IP "\fBscale\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Scale factor sampled raster values
.br
Default: \fI1.0\fR
.IP "\fBnull_value\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Height for sampled raster NULL values
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.drape\fR converts 2D/3D vector data into 3D vector format via
sampling of an elevation surface. Three sampling algorithms adapted
from \fIv.sample\fR were incorporated
into this module: nearest neighbor, bilinear, and cubic convultion.
.PP
\fIv.drape\fR will skip vector features outside of current
computational region or where raster map has NULL value. It\(cqs possible
to include all vector features by specifying height value that will be
assigned to verticles whose values can not be determined from raster
map.
.SH NOTES
Additional vertices can be added to the input 2D vector map
with \fIv.split\fR.
.PP
The module can be used in conjunction
with \fIv.out.pov\fR and
\fIr.out.pov\fR to export a complete
set of vector and raster data for display
in POVRAY.
.SH EXAMPLES
Spearfish example:
.br
.nf
\fC
v.drape in=roads elevation=elevation.10m method=bilinear out=roads3d
v.info roads3d
\fR
.fi
.PP
Create 3D vector roads map containing only \(dqunimproved\(dq roads. Set
road height to 1000 m for all parts without height information.
.br
.nf
\fC
v.drape input=roads type=line elevation=elevation.dem output=roads_3d \(rs
        method=nearest scale=1.0 where=\(cqcat=5\(cq layer=1 null_value=1000
\fR
.fi
.SS POVRAY example
.br
.nf
\fC
#export the vector data
v.drape in=roads out=roads3d elevation=elevation.10m
v.out.pov roads3d out=roads3d.pov
#export the raster data
r.out.pov elevation.10m tga=elevation.tga
r.out.png landcover.30m out=landcover30m.png
# now write a complete povray\-script and launch povray
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
v.extrude,
v.to.3d,
r.out.pov,
v.in.region,
v.out.pov,
v.overlay,
v.split,
v.what.rast
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Dylan Beaudette, University of California at Davis.
.br
Updated for GRASS 7 by Martin Landa, Czech Technical University in
Prague, Czech Republic
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: v.drape source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
