.TH v.in.dxf 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.in.dxf\fR\fR  \- Converts file in DXF format to GRASS vector map.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, import, DXF, level1
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.in.dxf\fR
.br
\fBv.in.dxf \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.in.dxf\fR [\-\fBetbfli1\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBlayers\fR=\fIstring\fR[,\fIstring\fR,...]]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-e\fR" 4m
.br
Ignore the map extent of DXF file
.IP "\fB\-t\fR" 4m
.br
Do not create attribute table
.IP "\fB\-b\fR" 4m
.br
Do not build topology
.br
Advantageous when handling a large number of points
.IP "\fB\-f\fR" 4m
.br
Import polyface meshes as 3D wire frame
.IP "\fB\-l\fR" 4m
.br
List available DXF layers and exit
.IP "\fB\-i\fR" 4m
.br
Invert selection by DXF layers (don\(cqt import layers in list)
.IP "\fB\-1\fR" 4m
.br
Import all objects into one layer
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Path to input DXF file
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output vector map
.IP "\fBlayers\fR=\fIstring[,\fIstring\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
List of DXF layers to import (default: all)
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.in.dxf\fR converts DXF format CAD files to GRASS vector
format. The following graphical objects (DXF entities) are supported:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
point
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBDXF POINT\fR
.RE
.IP \(bu 4n
line
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBDXF LINE\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBDXF POLYLINE\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBDXF LWPOLYLINE\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBDXF ARC\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBDXF CIRCLE\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBDXF TEXT\fR
.RE
.IP \(bu 4n
face
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBDXF POLYFACE MESHES\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fBDXF 3DFACE\fR
.RE
.RE
Table and column names are changed to lowercase characters for easier
SQL usage (lowercase table/column names avoid the need to quote them
if the attribute table is stored in a SQL DBMS such as PostgreSQL).
.PP
The \(dqlayer\(dq column will contain the name(s) of the DXF input
layer(s). The DXF entity type string will be stored in the \(dqentity\(dq
column as uppercase.
.PP
The \(dqhandle\(dq column can be used to store small bits of data associated
with any entity in the DXF file (i.e., entity handle or unique object
identifiers in the layer). The entity handle is a \(dqtext string of up
to 16 hexadecimal digits\(dq, which is a 64\-bit integer (currently not
supported by GRASS database drivers).  For text type entities, the
text value will be stored in the \(dqlabel\(dq column of the GRASS vector
output map. Neither the \(dqhandle\(dq nor \(dqlabel\(dq column is mandatory.
.SH REFERENCES
AutoCad DXF (from Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia)
.br
DXF References (Autodesk\-supplied documentation)
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
v.out.dxf,
v.in.ogr,
v.out.ogr
\fR
.PP
\fI
How\-to import DXF files in wxGUI (from GRASS User Wiki)
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Original written by Chuck Ehlschlaeger, 6/1989
.br
Revised by Dave Gerdes, 12/1989
.br
US Army Construction Engineering Research Lab
.PP
Updated for GRASS 6 and 3D support. Huidae Cho, 3/2006
.br
With minor additions by Benjamin Ducke (Oxford Archaeology), 4/2009
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
v.in.dxf source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
