.TH v.in.db 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.in.db\fR\fR  \- Creates new vector (points) map from database table containing coordinates.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, import, database, points
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.in.db\fR
.br
\fBv.in.db \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.in.db\fR [\-\fBt\fR] \fBtable\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBdriver\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBdatabase\fR=\fIname\fR]  \fBx\fR=\fIname\fR \fBy\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBz\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBkey\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBwhere\fR=\fIsql_query\fR]  \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-t\fR" 4m
.br
Use imported table as attribute table for new map
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBtable\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Input table name
.IP "\fBdriver\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of database driver
.br
Options: \fIdbf, odbc, ogr, pg, sqlite\fR
.br
Default: \fIsqlite\fR
.IP "\fBdatabase\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of database
.br
Default: \fI$GISDBASE/$LOCATION_NAME/$MAPSET/sqlite/sqlite.db\fR
.IP "\fBx\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of column containing x coordinate
.IP "\fBy\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of column containing y coordinate
.IP "\fBz\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of column containing z coordinate
.IP "\fBkey\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of column containing category number
.br
Must refer to an integer column
.IP "\fBwhere\fR=\fIsql_query\fR" 4m
.br
WHERE conditions of SQL statement without \(cqwhere\(cq keyword
.br
Example: income < 1000 and population >= 10000
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output vector map
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.in.db\fR creates a new vector point map from database table or file
containing coordinates.
.SH NOTES
If GRASS comes with OGR support
than \fIv.in.db\fR allows importing data from different input
files, eg. CSV or MS Excel (assuming that GDAL/OGR library is compiled
with this support).
.PP
\fIv.in.db\fR creates key column \(dqcat\(dq automatically
when \fBkey\fR option is not given. Note that this operation is
possible to perform only when \fB\-t\fR flag is not given. Currently,
automated creation of key column is supported only when default DB
driver for output vector map is SQLite
driver otherwise \fBkey\fR option must be specified by the
user. Default DB driver is defined
by \fIdb.connect\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Creating a map from PostgreSQL table
.br
.nf
\fC
v.in.db driver=pg database=\(dqhost=myserver.itc.it,dbname=mydb\(dq \(rs
        table=pat_stazioni x=east y=north z=quota key=id output=pat_stazioni
\fR
.fi
.PP
If an ID column is not present in the PostgreSQL table, a new
column should be added. See PostgreSQL DB
driver page for details.
.SS Creating a map from PostGIS
To extract coordinate values from PostGIS, functions have to be used:
.br
.nf
\fC
v.in.db driver=pg database=\(dqhost=myserver.itc.it,dbname=mydb\(dq \(rs
        table=station x=\(dqx(geom)\(dq y=\(dqy(geom)\(dq z=\(dqz(geom)\(dq key=id out=meteostations
\fR
.fi
.PP
If an ID column is not present in the PostgreSQL table, a new
column should be added. See PostgreSQL DB
driver page for details.
.PP
Alternatively a vector point map can be imported from PostGIS
database using \fIv.in.ogr\fR.
.SS Creating a map from Open Document spreadsheet (ODS) file
A new vector point map is created from given sheet in ODS file. The
\fBdatabase\fR option points to the ODS file. Option \fBtable\fR is the
name of selected spreadsheet list, the \fBkey\fR option is the identifier
column:
.br
.nf
\fC
# preview table structure with OGR tool (table name is \(dqLayer name\(dq here):
ogrinfo \-al \-so meteodata.ods
# import sheet from ODS into map
v.in.db key=ID table=mysheet x=long y=lat z=height output=meteodata \(rs
         driver=ogr database=meteodata.ods
\fR
.fi
.SS Creating a map from MS Excel file
A new vector point map is created from given sheet in MS Excel file. The
\fBdatabase\fR option points to the file in MS Excel
format. Option \fBtable\fR is name of the selected spreadsheet \(dqList1\(dq:
.br
.nf
\fC
v.in.db table=List1 x=long y=lat z=height output=meteodata \(rs
         driver=ogr database=meteodata.xls
\fR
.fi
Note that in this example the \fBkey\fR option is omitted. In this case
\fIv.in.db\fR tries to add key column automatically. This
requires SQLite to be a default DB
driver.
.SS Creating a map from DBF table
A new 3D point vector map is created from DBF table. Column \(cqidcol\(cq
contains unique row IDs. The \fBdatabase\fR option is the
directory where the DBF file is stored.
.br
.nf
\fC
v.in.db driver=dbf database=/home/user/tables/ table=pointsfile x=x y=y z=z \(rs
        key=idcol out=dtmpoints
\fR
.fi
To check result:
.br
.nf
\fC
v.info dtmpoints
v.info \-c dtmpoints
\fR
.fi
.PP
If DB driver for output vector map is different from SQLite driver
and an ID column is missing in the DBF file, it has to be added
beforehand, e.g. with OpenOffice.  Alternatively, import the table
with \fIdb.in.ogr\fR into GRASS and
then with \fIv.in.db\fR from the imported table
(\fIdb.in.ogr\fR optionally adds an
unique ID column).
.SS Creating a point map from DBF table for selected records only
.PP
The user can import only selected vector points from a table using
the \fBwhere\fR parameter (see above for general DBF handling):
.br
.nf
\fC
v.in.db driver=dbf  database=/home/user/tables/ table=pointsfile x=x y=y z=z \(rs
        key=idcol out=dtmpoints where=\(dqx NOT NULL and z > 100\(dq
\fR
.fi
.SS Creating a map from SQLite table
A new vector point map is created from table in SQLite database
file. Column \(cqidcol\(cq contains unique row IDs. The
\fBdatabase\fR option is the the SQLite database file.
.br
.nf
\fC
v.in.db driver=sqlite database=/home/user/tables/mysqlite.db table=pointsfile x=x y=y z=z \(rs
        key=idcol out=dtmpoints
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
db.execute,
db.in.ogr,
v.info,
v.in.geonames,
v.in.ogr,
v.to.db
\fR
.PP
SQL support in GRASS GIS
.SH AUTHORS
Radim Blazek
.br
Various updates for GRASS 7 by Martin Landa, Czech Technical University in Prague, Czech Republic
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
v.in.db source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
