.TH v.net.connectivity 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.net.connectivity\fR\fR  \- Computes vertex connectivity between two sets of nodes in the network.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, network, connectivity
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.net.connectivity\fR
.br
\fBv.net.connectivity \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.net.connectivity\fR \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBarc_layer\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBnode_layer\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBarc_column\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBarc_backward_column\fR=\fIname\fR]  \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBnode_column\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBset1_cats\fR=\fIrange\fR]   [\fBset1_where\fR=\fIsql_query\fR]   [\fBset2_cats\fR=\fIrange\fR]   [\fBset2_where\fR=\fIsql_query\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input vector map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBarc_layer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Arc layer
.br
Vector features can have category values in different layers. This number determines which layer to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBnode_layer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Node layer
.br
Vector features can have category values in different layers. This number determines which layer to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI2\fR
.IP "\fBarc_column\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Arc forward/both direction(s) cost column (number)
.IP "\fBarc_backward_column\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Arc backward direction cost column (number)
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output vector map
.IP "\fBnode_column\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Node cost column (number)
.IP "\fBset1_cats\fR=\fIrange\fR" 4m
.br
Set1 category values
.br
Example: 1,3,7\-9,13
.IP "\fBset1_where\fR=\fIsql_query\fR" 4m
.br
Set1 WHERE conditions of SQL statement without \(cqwhere\(cq keyword
.br
Example: income < 1000 and population >= 10000
.IP "\fBset2_cats\fR=\fIrange\fR" 4m
.br
Category values
.br
Set2 category values
.IP "\fBset2_where\fR=\fIsql_query\fR" 4m
.br
Set2 WHERE conditions of SQL statement without \(cqwhere\(cq keyword
.br
Example: income < 1000 and population >= 10000
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.net.connectivity\fR computes vertex connectivity between two sets,
i.e. the minimum number of vertices whose removal would separate two
given sets.
.SH NOTES
Two sets (\fIset1\fR and \fIset2\fR) are specified by respective
\fBlayer\fR, \fBwhere\fR and \fBcats\fR parameters. Similarly to
v.net.flow module, capacities of nodes can
be given by \fBnode_column\fR option. \fIv.net.connectivity\fR finds the
set of nodes of minimum total capacitiy separating the two given sets and
outputs map containing points on the positions of these nodes. Default
capacity, which is used when no column is specified, is one.
.SH EXAMPLES
The following command finds the minimum number of intersections separating
roads on the left bank from roads on the right bank.
.br
.nf
\fC
v.net.connectivity input=roads output=roads_conn set1_where=\(dqbank=left\(dq \(rs
      set2_where=\(dqbank=right\(dq
\fR
.fi
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
v.net.connectivity input=airtraffic output=connectivity \(rs
      set1_where=\(dqname=JFK\(dq set2_where=\(dqname=Heathrow\(dq node_column=capacity
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
v.net,
v.net.flow,
v.net.bridge
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Daniel Bundala, Google Summer of Code 2009, Student
.br
Wolf Bergenheim, Mentor
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: v.net.connectivity source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
