.TH v.net.bridge 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.net.bridge\fR\fR  \- Computes bridges and articulation points in the network.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, network, articulation points
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.net.bridge\fR
.br
\fBv.net.bridge \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.net.bridge\fR \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBarc_layer\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBnode_layer\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBarc_column\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBarc_backward_column\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBnode_column\fR=\fIstring\fR]  \fBmethod\fR=\fIstring\fR  [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input vector map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output vector map
.IP "\fBarc_layer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Arc layer
.br
Vector features can have category values in different layers. This number determines which layer to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBnode_layer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Node layer
.br
Vector features can have category values in different layers. This number determines which layer to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI2\fR
.IP "\fBarc_column\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Arc forward/both direction(s) cost column (number)
.IP "\fBarc_backward_column\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Arc backward direction cost column (number)
.IP "\fBnode_column\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Node cost column (number)
.IP "\fBmethod\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Feature type
.br
Options: \fIbridge, articulation\fR
.br
\fBbridge\fR: Finds bridges
.br
\fBarticulation\fR: Finds articulation points
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.net.bridge\fR finds bridges and articulation points in a network.
.SH NOTES
Bridge in a network is an edge/line whose removal would disconnect
the (sub\-)network. A node is an articulation point if its removal
would disconnect the (sub\-)network. For more information and formal
definitions check the wikipedia entries:
bridge
and articulation
point.
.PP
The output of the module contains the selected
features. For \fBmethod=bridge\fR, lines corresponding to
bridges are copied from the input map to the output map. On the
other hand, for \fBmethod=articulation\fR, points are created on
the positions of articulation points.
.PP
.br
In GRASS GIS, \fIline\fR is not always a single line
segment. It might be, and often is, a sequence of line segments
between two intersections. Also, articulation point is a standard
graph theoretic terminology which is slightly misleading in GRASS.
An articulation point in graph theory is an articulation
\fInode\fR in GRASS terminology.
.SH EXAMPLES
.br
.nf
\fC
	TBD
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
v.net,
v.category,
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Daniel Bundala, Google Summer of Code 2009, Student
.br
Wolf Bergenheim, Mentor
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: v.net.bridge source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
