.TH v.out.ogr 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.out.ogr\fR\fR  \- Exports a vector map layer to any of the supported OGR vector formats.
.br
By default a vector map layer is exported to OGC GeoPackage format.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, export, output, OGR, output
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.out.ogr\fR
.br
\fBv.out.ogr \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.out.ogr\fR [\-\fBuasce2mnl\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBtype\fR=\fIstring\fR[,\fIstring\fR,...]]  \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBformat\fR=\fIstring\fR  [\fBoutput_layer\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBoutput_type\fR=\fIstring\fR[,\fIstring\fR,...]]   [\fBdsco\fR=\fIstring\fR[,\fIstring\fR,...]]   [\fBlco\fR=\fIstring\fR[,\fIstring\fR,...]]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-u\fR" 4m
.br
Open an existing OGR datasource for update
.IP "\fB\-a\fR" 4m
.br
Append to existing layer
.br
A new OGR layer is created if it does not exist
.IP "\fB\-s\fR" 4m
.br
Skip export of GRASS category ID (\(cqcat\(cq) attribute
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 4m
.br
Also export features without category (not labeled). Otherwise only features with category are exported.
.IP "\fB\-e\fR" 4m
.br
Use ESRI\-style .prj file format (applies to Shapefile output only)
.IP "\fB\-2\fR" 4m
.br
Force 2D output even if input is 3D (applies to Shapefile output only)
.br
Useful if input is 3D but all z coordinates are identical
.IP "\fB\-m\fR" 4m
.br
Export vector data as multi\-features
.IP "\fB\-n\fR" 4m
.br
Create a new empty layer in defined OGR datasource and exit. Nothing is read from input.
.IP "\fB\-l\fR" 4m
.br
List supported output formats and exit
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input vector map to export
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number or name
.br
Vector features can have category values in different layers. This number determines which layer to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBtype\fR=\fIstring[,\fIstring\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Feature type(s)
.br
Combination of types is not supported by all output formats. Default is to use first type found in input vector map.
.br
Options: \fIpoint, line, boundary, centroid, area, face, kernel, auto\fR
.br
Default: \fIauto\fR
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of output OGR datasource
.br
For example: ESRI Shapefile: filename or directory for storage
.br
            PostGIS database: connection string
.IP "\fBformat\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Data format to write
.br
Options: \fIAmigoCloud, CSV, Carto, Cloudant, CouchDB, DB2ODBC, DGN, DXF, ESRI_Shapefile, Elasticsearch, FlatGeobuf, GML, GMLAS, GPKG, GPSBabel, GPSTrackMaker, GPX, GeoJSON, GeoJSONSeq, GeoRSS, Geoconcept, Interlis_1, Interlis_2, JML, JP2OpenJPEG, KML, LIBKML, MBTiles, MSSQLSpatial, MVT, MapInfo_File, MapML, Memory, MySQL, NGW, ODBC, ODS, OGR_GMT, PCIDSK, PDF, PDS4, PGDUMP, PostgreSQL, S57, SQLite, Selafin, TIGER, VDV, VICAR, WAsP, XLSX, netCDF\fR
.br
Default: \fIGPKG\fR
.IP "\fBoutput_layer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output OGR layer. If not specified, input name is used
.br
For example: ESRI Shapefile: shapefile name
.br
            PostGIS database: table name
.IP "\fBoutput_type\fR=\fIstring[,\fIstring\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Optionally change default output type
.br
Options: \fIline, boundary\fR
.br
Default: \fI\fR
.br
\fBline\fR: export area boundaries as linestrings
.br
\fBboundary\fR: export lines as polygons
.IP "\fBdsco\fR=\fIstring[,\fIstring\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
OGR dataset creation option (format specific, NAME=VALUE)
.br
Default: \fI\fR
.IP "\fBlco\fR=\fIstring[,\fIstring\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
OGR layer creation option (format specific, NAME=VALUE)
.br
Default: \fI\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.out.ogr\fR converts GRASS vector map layer to any of the
supported OGR vector formats
(including OGC GeoPackage, ESRI Shapefile, SpatiaLite or GML).
.PP
OGR (Simple Features Library) is part of the
GDAL library, so you need to
install this library to use \fIv.out.ogr\fR.
.PP
The OGR library supports many various formats including:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
OGC GeoPackage
.IP \(bu 4n
ESRI Shapefile
.IP \(bu 4n
PostGIS
.IP \(bu 4n
SpatiaLite
.IP \(bu 4n
CSV
.IP \(bu 4n
GML
.IP \(bu 4n
KML
.IP \(bu 4n
Mapinfo File
.IP \(bu 4n
TIGER
.IP \(bu 4n
\&... and many others
.RE
The list of supported formats is printed with the \fI\-l\fR flag.
.PP
For further available other supported formats go
here.
.SH NOTES
By default, islands will appear as holes inside surrounding areas. To
export polygons with holes into, e.g., a Esri Shapefile, and make the
holes appear as filled areas, the flag \fB\-c\fR has to be used.
.PP
\fIv.out.ogr\fR exports 3D vector data as 2.5D simple features if
possible (not supported by all formats). For exporting 3D vector data
as 2D simple features, use \fB\-2\fR flag.
.PP
By default, \fIv.out.ogr\fR converts GRASS vector data to single
simple features. If GRASS feature has more categories defined in the
given \fBlayer\fR, then this feature is exported multiple
times. GRASS features without category are skipped by default. To
export features also without category, the \fB\-c\fR flag must be
given.
.PP
When \fB\-m\fR flag is given, \fIv.out.ogr\fR export GRASS vector
data as multi\-features. Multi\-feature is formed by GRASS features with
the same category. When \fB\-c\fR flag is given, the module also
export GRASS features without category as one multi\-feature. Note that
multi\-features are not supported by all formats.
.PP
ESRI Shapefile export: note that due to the DBF table specifications
column names may not be longer than 10 characters.
.PP
Performance: export to SQLite based formats including OGC GeoPackage may
become faster with the environmental variable OGR_SQLITE_CACHE=1024
being set (value depends on available RAM, see
OGR ConfigOptions).
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Export to OGC GeoPackage
Export lines from a GRASS vector map to OGC GeoPackage format:
.br
.nf
\fC
v.out.ogr input=roadsmajor type=line output=roadsmajor.gpkg
\fR
.fi
.PP
Export areas from GRASS vector map to OGC GeoPackage format, converting
islands (holes) to filled polygons:
.br
.nf
\fC
v.out.ogr \-c input=areas_islands type=area output=areas_islands.gpkg
\fR
.fi
.PP
Export mixed geometry type GRASS vector map to OGC GeoPackage format:
.br
.nf
\fC
v.out.ogr input=generic_vector output=mixed_geometry.gpkg
\fR
.fi
.SS Export to ESRI Shapefile
Export lines from GRASS vector map to Shapefile format:
.br
.nf
\fC
v.out.ogr input=roadsmajor type=line format=ESRI_Shapefile output=lines.shp
\fR
.fi
.PP
Export areas from GRASS vector map to Shapefile format, converting
islands (holes) to filled polygons:
.br
.nf
\fC
v.out.ogr \-c input=areas_islands type=area format=ESRI_Shapefile output=areas_islands.shp
\fR
.fi
.PP
Export 3D lines from GRASS vector map to Shapefile format:
.br
.nf
\fC
v.out.ogr input=lines_3d type=line format=ESRI_Shapefile output=lines_3d.shp lco=\(dqSHPT=ARCZ\(dq
\fR
.fi
.PP
Export 3D points (e.g., Lidar points) from GRASS vector map to Shapefile format
.br
.nf
\fC
v.out.ogr points_3d type=point format=ESRI_Shapefile output=points_3d.shp lco=\(dqSHPT=POINTZ\(dq
\fR
.fi
.PP
Export 3D faces from GRASS vector map to Shapefile format:
.br
.nf
\fC
v.out.ogr input=objects_3d type=face format=ESRI_Shapefile output=faces_3d.shp lco=\(dqSHPT=POLYGONZ\(dq
\fR
.fi
.PP
Export 3D faces from GRASS vector map to Shapefile format, automatic 3D setting:
.br
.nf
\fC
v.out.ogr input=objects_3d type=face format=ESRI_Shapefile output=faces_3d.shp\(dq
\fR
.fi
.SS Export to GML
Export lines from GRASS vector map to GML format
(generates \(cq/tmp/testogr.gml\(cq file with layer \(cqtestogr\(cq):
.br
.nf
\fC
v.out.ogr input=multi type=line output=/tmp/testogr.gml output_layer=testogr format=GML
\fR
.fi
.SS Export to PostgreSQL/PostGIS
Export areas from GRASS vector map to PostGIS database:
.br
.nf
\fC
v.out.ogr input=polygons type=area output=\(dqPG:host=localhost dbname=postgis user=postgres\(dq output_layer=polymap format=PostgreSQL
\fR
.fi
\fINote:\fR For exporting GRASS vector data to PostGIS database can
be also used \fIv.out.postgis\fR
module. This module is not based on OGR library and supports beside
simple features also topological format (PostGIS Topology).
.SS Export to KML (Google Earth)
.PP
Export faces (3D vectors) from GRASS vector map to KML format for Google Earth:
.br
.nf
\fC
v.out.ogr input=buildings_3d output=buildings_3d.kml output_layer=buildings_3d format=KML type=face
\fR
.fi
.PP
Generate and export GRASS vector \(dqasteroid\(dq map (faces, 3D vectors) to
KML format for Google Earth:
.br
.nf
\fC
# near Raleigh (NC, USA)
g.region n=35.73952587 s=35.73279182 w=\-78.68263928 e=\-78.67499517
# two layers of random points
v.random \-z output=random3d_a n=10 zmin=0 zmax=200
v.random \-z output=random3d_b n=15 zmin=400 zmax=600
# merge into one 3D points map
v.patch input=random3d_a,random3d_b output=random3d
# generate 3D convex hull
v.hull input=random3d output=\(dqrandom3d_hull\(dq
# export to KML 3D
v.out.ogr input=random3d_hull output=random3d_hull.kml format=KML type=face dsco=\(dqAltitudeMode=absolute\(dq
# now open KML file \(cqrandom3d_hull.kml\(cq in Google Earth or NASA WorldWind or ...
\fR
.fi
.SH REFERENCES
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
OGR vector library
.IP \(bu 4n
OGR vector library C API
documentation
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
v.out.postgis,
db.out.ogr,
v.external,
v.external.out,
v.in.ogr,
v.pack
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Radim Blazek, ITC\-Irst, Trento, Italy
.br
Some contributions: Markus Neteler
.br
Multi\-feature support by Martin Landa, Czech Technical University in Prague, 2013
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: v.out.ogr source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
