.TH v.out.lidar 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.out.lidar\fR\fR  \- Exports vector points as LAS point cloud
.br
Converts LAS LiDAR point clouds to a GRASS vector map with libLAS
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, export, output, LIDAR, points
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.out.lidar\fR
.br
\fBv.out.lidar \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.out.lidar\fR [\-\fBrw\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR]  \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBcats\fR=\fIrange\fR]   [\fBwhere\fR=\fIsql_query\fR]   [\fBid_layer\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBreturn_layer\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBclass_layer\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBrgb_layer\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBreturn_column\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBn_returns_column\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBclass_column\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBrgb_column\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBred_column\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBgreen_column\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBblue_column\fR=\fIname\fR]  \fBlas_xyscale\fR=\fIfloat\fR \fBlas_zscale\fR=\fIfloat\fR  [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-r\fR" 4m
.br
Limit export to the current region
.IP "\fB\-w\fR" 4m
.br
Ignore color table
.br
Ignore color table even when set and not other options are present
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input vector map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number or name (\(cq\-1\(cq for all layers)
.br
A single vector map can be connected to multiple database tables. This number determines which table to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI\-1\fR
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output file
.IP "\fBcats\fR=\fIrange\fR" 4m
.br
Category values
.br
Example: 1,3,7\-9,13
.IP "\fBwhere\fR=\fIsql_query\fR" 4m
.br
WHERE conditions of SQL statement without \(cqwhere\(cq keyword
.br
Example: income < 1000 and population >= 10000
.IP "\fBid_layer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number to store generated point ID as category
.br
Vector features can have category values in different layers. This number determines which layer to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.IP "\fBreturn_layer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number to store return number as category
.br
Vector features can have category values in different layers. This number determines which layer to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.IP "\fBclass_layer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number to store class number as category
.br
Vector features can have category values in different layers. This number determines which layer to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.IP "\fBrgb_layer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number where RGB color is stored as category
.br
Vector features can have category values in different layers. This number determines which layer to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.IP "\fBreturn_column\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Column with return number
.br
Name of attribute column
.IP "\fBn_returns_column\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Column with return number
.br
Name of attribute column
.IP "\fBclass_column\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Column with return number
.br
Name of attribute column
.IP "\fBrgb_column\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
RGB color definition column
.br
Color definition in R:G:B form
.IP "\fBred_column\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Column with red color
.br
Name of attribute column
.IP "\fBgreen_column\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Column with green color
.br
Name of attribute column
.IP "\fBblue_column\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Column with blue color
.br
Name of attribute column
.IP "\fBlas_xyscale\fR=\fIfloat\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Internal scale to apply to X and Y values
.br
This scale does not change the values itself but only how precisely they are stored, for example 0.01 will preserve two decimal places
.br
Default: \fI0.01\fR
.IP "\fBlas_zscale\fR=\fIfloat\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Internal scale to apply to z values
.br
This scale does not change the values itself but only how precisely they are stored, for example 0.01 will preserve two decimal places
.br
Default: \fI0.01\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.out.lidar\fR converts GRASS vector map to a LiDAR point clouds
in LAS format using the libLAS library.
.PP
The \fB\-r\fR flag limits the export to the current computational region
extent (see \fIg.region\fR).
The \fBwhere\fR option limits the export by attributes (applied only
when the columns are used for export).
.PP
LAS format stores the coordinates as integers rounding the decimal places.
Before that a scale is applied to preserve a certain number of decimal
places. This scale can be set using \fBlas_xyscale\fR and \fBlas_xscale\fR
options. For example, the scale value 0.01 will preserve two decimal
places while the value 1.0 will preserve none.
.SH NOTES
The typical file extensions for the LAS format are .las and .laz (compressed).
The compressed LAS (.laz) format can be exported only if libLAS has been
compiled with LASzip support.
It is also good when libLAS was compiled with GDAL. This is needed when
working with projections.
.SH EXAMPLE
Generate fractal surface and export is as point in LAS format:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.region raster=elevation res=100
r.surf.fractal output=fractals
r.to.vect input=fractals output=fractals type=point \-z
v.out.lidar input=fractals output=fractals.las
\fR
.fi
.SH REFERENCES
ASPRS LAS format
.br
LAS library
.br
.SH AUTHOR
Vaclav Petras
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
v.out.lidar source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
