.TH v.parallel 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.parallel\fR\fR  \- Creates parallel line to input vector lines.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, geometry, buffer, line
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.parallel\fR
.br
\fBv.parallel \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.parallel\fR [\-\fBrb\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR]  \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBdistance\fR=\fIfloat\fR  [\fBminordistance\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\fBangle\fR=\fIfloat\fR]  \fBside\fR=\fIstring\fR  [\fBtolerance\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-r\fR" 4m
.br
Make outside corners round
.IP "\fB\-b\fR" 4m
.br
Create buffer\-like parallel lines
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input vector map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number or name (\(cq\-1\(cq for all layers)
.br
A single vector map can be connected to multiple database tables. This number determines which table to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI\-1\fR
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output vector map
.IP "\fBdistance\fR=\fIfloat\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Offset along major axis in map units
.br
Options: \fI0\-100000000\fR
.IP "\fBminordistance\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Offset along minor axis in map units
.br
Options: \fI0\-100000000\fR
.IP "\fBangle\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Angle of major axis in degrees
.br
Default: \fI0\fR
.IP "\fBside\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Side
.br
Options: \fIleft, right, both\fR
.br
Default: \fIright\fR
.br
\fBleft\fR: Parallel line is on the left
.br
\fBright\fR: Parallel line is on the right
.br
\fBboth\fR: Parallel lines on both sides
.IP "\fBtolerance\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Tolerance of arc polylines in map units
.br
Options: \fI0\-100000000\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.parallel\fR creates parallel lines to the input vector lines which
can be used as half\-buffers.
.SH NOTES
Usage of \fB\-b\fR flag will overrule the \fBside\fR parameter.
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
There is a problem with side\-offset parallel line generation for inside corners.
To avoid this problem, the \fB\-b\fR flag might be used.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
v.buffer
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Radim Blazek
.br
Rewritten by Rosen Matev (with support through the Google Summer of Code program 2008)
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
v.parallel source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
