.TH v.profile 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.profile\fR\fR  \- Vector map profiling tool
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, profile, transect
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.profile\fR
.br
\fBv.profile \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.profile\fR [\-\fBcz\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBtype\fR=\fIstring\fR[,\fIstring\fR,...]]   [\fBwhere\fR=\fIsql_query\fR]   [\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBoutput\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBseparator\fR=\fIcharacter\fR]   [\fBdp\fR=\fIinteger\fR]  \fBbuffer\fR=\fIfloat\fR  [\fBmap_output\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBcoordinates\fR=\fIeast,north\fR[,\fIeast,north\fR,...]]   [\fBprofile_map\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBprofile_where\fR=\fIsql_query\fR]   [\fBprofile_layer\fR=\fIinteger\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 4m
.br
Do not print column names
.IP "\fB\-z\fR" 4m
.br
Do not print 3D vector data (z values)
.br
Only affects 3D vectors
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input vector map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBtype\fR=\fIstring[,\fIstring\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Input feature type
.br
Options: \fIpoint, line\fR
.br
Default: \fIpoint,line\fR
.IP "\fBwhere\fR=\fIsql_query\fR" 4m
.br
WHERE conditions of SQL statement without \(cqwhere\(cq keyword
.br
Example: income < 1000 and population >= 10000
.IP "\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number or name
.br
Use features only from specified layer
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Path to output text file or \- for stdout
.br
Default: \fI\-\fR
.IP "\fBseparator\fR=\fIcharacter\fR" 4m
.br
Field separator
.br
Special characters: pipe, comma, space, tab, newline
.br
Default: \fIpipe\fR
.IP "\fBdp\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Number of significant digits
.br
Options: \fI0\-32\fR
.br
Default: \fI2\fR
.IP "\fBbuffer\fR=\fIfloat\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Buffer (tolerance) for points in map units
.br
How far points can be from sampling line
.br
Default: \fI10\fR
.IP "\fBmap_output\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name for profile line and buffer output map
.br
Profile line and buffer around it will be written
.IP "\fBcoordinates\fR=\fIeast,north[,\fIeast,north\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Coordinates for profiling line nodes
.br
Specify profiling line vertexes and nodes
.IP "\fBprofile_map\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Profiling line map
.br
Vector map containing profiling line
.IP "\fBprofile_where\fR=\fIsql_query\fR" 4m
.br
WHERE conditions for input profile line map
.br
Use to select only one line from profiling line map
.IP "\fBprofile_layer\fR=\fIinteger\fR" 4m
.br
Profiling line map layer
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.profile\fR prints out distance and attributes of points/lines
along a profiling line. Distance is calculated from the first profiling line
coordinate pair or from the beginning of vector line.
.br
The \fIbuffer\fR (tolerance) parameter sets how far point can be
located from a profiling line and still be included in the output data set.
.br
The \fIoutput\fR map option can be used to visually check which points are
profiled. The \fIbuffer\fR (tolerance) setting does not affect lines.
Lines are sampled at their crossing point with profiling line.
.PP
By default Z values are printed if input vector is a 3D map. It can be
disabled with the \fB\-z\fR flag.
.br
The profiling line can be provided as N,E coordinate pairs or from an
input vector map. As a profiling line must be a single line, the user
should use the \fIprofile_where\fR parameter to select a single line
from a profile input map if it contains multiple vector features.
.SH NOTES
.PP
Currently the module can profile only points and lines (including 3D ones).
Areas and other complex features are not supported. If in future users can
provide reasonable examples how area sampling should work and why it is
important, area (or any other feature type) sampling can be added.
.PP
Due to bugs in GRASS native buffering algorithms, this module for now
depends on GEOS and will not function if GRASS is compiled without GEOS.
This restriction will be removed as soon as GRASS native buffer generation
is fixed.
.SH EXAMPLES
List all geonames along part of road NC\-96 (NC Basic dataset).
The output will be stored in a file for later usage.
We will use comma as delimiter and three numbers after decimal
separator for distance. Output file will contain data for all points,
that are within 500 m range to profiling line.
.br
.nf
\fC
v.profile input=geonames@PERMANENT output=/home/user/NC_96_geonames.csv\(rs
  separator=comma dp=3 buffer=500 profile_map=roadsmajor@PERMANENT profile_where=cat=56
# Now lets see the output:
cat NC_96_geonames.csv
Number,Distance,cat,GEONAMEID,NAME,ASCIINAME,ALTERNATEN,FEATURECLA,FEATURECOD,COUNTRYCOD,CC2,ADMIN1,POPULATION,ELEVATION,GTOPO30,TIMEZONE,MODIFICATI,PPLKEY,SRC_ID,MAINT_ID
1,360.719,26881,4482019,\(dqNew Zebulon Elementary School\(dq,\(dqNew Zebulon Elementary School\(dq,\(dq\(dq,\(dqS\(dq,\(dqSCH\(dq,\(dqUS\(dq,\(dq\(dq,\(dqNC\(dq,0,106,91,\(dqAmerica/Iqaluit\(dq,\(dq2006\-01\-15 00:00:00\(dq,0,0,0
2,846.806,22026,4476596,\(dqLittle River, Township of\(dq,\(dqLittle River, Township of\(dq,\(dq\(dq,\(dqA\(dq,\(dqADMD\(dq,\(dqUS\(dq,\(dq\(dq,\(dqNC\(dq,0,0,91,\(dqAmerica/Iqaluit\(dq,\(dq2006\-01\-15 00:00:00\(dq,0,0,0
3,2027.918,16681,4470608,\(dqHendricks Pond\(dq,\(dqHendricks Pond\(dq,\(dq\(dq,\(dqH\(dq,\(dqRSV\(dq,\(dqUS\(dq,\(dq\(dq,\(dqNC\(dq,0,0,91,\(dqAmerica/Iqaluit\(dq,\(dq2006\-01\-15 00:00:00\(dq,0,0,0
4,2027.918,16690,4470622,\(dqHendricks Dam\(dq,\(dqHendricks Dam\(dq,\(dq\(dq,\(dqS\(dq,\(dqDAM\(dq,\(dqUS\(dq,\(dq\(dq,\(dqNC\(dq,0,0,91,\(dqAmerica/Iqaluit\(dq,\(dq2006\-01\-15 00:00:00\(dq,0,0,0
5,2999.214,39338,4496159,\(dqUnion Chapel\(dq,\(dqUnion Chapel\(dq,\(dq\(dq,\(dq\(dq,\(dq\(dq,\(dqUS\(dq,\(dq\(dq,\(dqNC\(dq,0,0,96,\(dqAmerica/Iqaluit\(dq,\(dq2006\-01\-15 00:00:00\(dq,0,0,0
6,3784.992,43034,4500325,\(dqZebulon Airport\(dq,\(dqZebulon Airport\(dq,\(dq\(dq,\(dqS\(dq,\(dqAIRP\(dq,\(dqUS\(dq,\(dq\(dq,\(dqNC\(dq,0,108,98,\(dqAmerica/Iqaluit\(dq,\(dq2006\-01\-15 00:00:00\(dq,0,0,0
\fR
.fi
.PP
Create river valley crossection and provide river marker (Spearfish dataset):
.br
.nf
\fC
# Take elevation samples
r.profile input=elevation.dem@PERMANENT output=/home/user/elevation.profile \(rs
  profile=600570.27364,4920613.41838,600348.034348,4920840.38617
# Now get distance to place where river marker should be set
v.profile input=streams@PERMANENT output=/home/user/river_profile.csv \(rs
  east_north=600570.27364,4920613.41838,600348.034348,4920840.38617
\fR
.fi
.SH BUGS
Strings are enclosed in double quotes \(dq, still quotes within string are
not escaped.
.PP
Output does not contain Vector CAT values. Only way how to get CAT value is from
the attribute table.
.PP
If sampled feature (point, line) contains multiple attribute entries
(has multiple CAT values), only the first one is reported. If this is a
limitation in some practical use case, a feature request in GRASS GIS
issue tracker should be opened.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
r.profile,
Linear Referencing System
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Maris Nartiss
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: v.profile source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
