.TH v.report 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.report.py\fR\fR  \- Reports geometry statistics for vector maps.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, geometry, statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.report.py\fR
.br
\fBv.report.py \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.report.py\fR [\-\fBcd\fR] \fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR]  \fBoption\fR=\fIstring\fR  [\fBunits\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBsort\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-c\fR" 4m
.br
Do not include column names in output
.IP "\fB\-d\fR" 4m
.br
Report for geometries with no database records
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of vector map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number or name
.br
Vector features can have category values in different layers. This number determines which layer to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBoption\fR=\fIstring\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Value to calculate
.br
Options: \fIarea, length, coor\fR
.IP "\fBunits\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Units
.br
Options: \fImiles, feet, meters, kilometers, acres, hectares, percent\fR
.IP "\fBsort\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Sort the result
.br
Options: \fIasc, desc\fR
.br
\fBasc\fR: Sort in ascending order
.br
\fBdesc\fR: Sort in descending order
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.report\fR generates a table showing the area present in
each of the categories of a user\-selected data layer.
.PP
Area is given in hectares, square meters, and square kilometers.
If the units option is used, area is given in acres, square feet,
and square miles.
.PP
Feet and acre units are always reported in their common versions
(i.e. the International Foot, exactly 5280 feet in a mile), even
when the location\(cqs standard map unit is the US Survey foot.
.PP
\fIv.report\fR works on the full map data; therefore, the current
region is ignored. If you wish to spatially limit the statistics,
a map subset must be created with \fIv.in.region\fR and
\fIv.overlay\fR, and then run \fIv.report\fR on the new map.
.SH EXAMPLE
North Carolina sample dataset:
.br
.nf
\fC
v.report zipcodes_wake option=area units=hectares
\fR
.fi
In the output, there is an extra column added containing the results.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
v.in.region,
v.to.db,
v.overlay
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Markus Neteler, GDF Hannover
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: v.report source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
