.TH v.timestamp 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.timestamp\fR\fR  \- Modifies a timestamp for a vector map.
.br
Print/add/remove a timestamp for a vector map.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, metadata, timestamp, time
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.timestamp\fR
.br
\fBv.timestamp \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.timestamp\fR \fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBdate\fR=\fItimestamp\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of vector map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number or name
.br
Vector features can have category values in different layers. This number determines which layer to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBdate\fR=\fItimestamp\fR" 4m
.br
Datetime, datetime1/datetime2, or \(cqnone\(cq to remove
.br
Format: \(cq15 jan 1994\(cq (absolute) or \(cq2 years\(cq (relative)
.SH DESCRIPTION
This command has 2 modes of operation. If no \fBdate\fR argument is
supplied, then the current timestamp for the vector map is printed. If
a date argument is specified, then the timestamp for the vector map is
set to the specified date(s). See examples below.
.PP
See TIMESTAMP FORMAT
description for details.
.SH NOTES
Strings containing spaces should be quoted. For specifying a range of
time, the two timestamps should be separated by a forward slash. To
remove the timestamp from a vector map, use \fBdate=none\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
Prints the timestamp for the \(dqlidar\(dq vector map. If there is no
timestamp for \(dqlidar\(dq, nothing is printed. If there is a timestamp,
one or two time strings are printed, depending on if the timestamp for
the map consists of a single date or two dates (ie start and end
dates).
.br
.nf
\fC
v.timestamp map=lidar
\fR
.fi
Sets the timestamp for \(dqlidar\(dq to the single date \(dq15 sep 1987\(dq.
.br
.nf
\fC
v.timestamp map=lidar date=\(cq15 sep 1987\(cq
\fR
.fi
Sets the timestamp for \(dqlidar\(dq to have the start date \(dq15 sep 1987\(dq
and the end date \(dq20 feb 1988\(dq.
.br
.nf
\fC
v.timestamp map=lidar date=\(cq15 sep 1987/20 feb 1988\(cq
\fR
.fi
Removes the timestamp for the \(dqlidar\(dq vector map.
.br
.nf
\fC
v.timestamp map=lidar date=none
\fR
.fi
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
Spaces in the timestamp value are required.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
v.info,
r.timestamp,
r3.timestamp
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Michael Shapiro, U.S.Army Construction Engineering Research Laboratory
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: v.timestamp source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
