.TH v.to.points 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.to.points\fR\fR  \- Creates points along input lines in new vector map with 2 layers.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, geometry, 3D, line, node, vertex, point
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.to.points\fR
.br
\fBv.to.points \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.to.points\fR [\-\fBiprt\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBtype\fR=\fIstring\fR[,\fIstring\fR,...]]  \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBuse\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBdmax\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-i\fR" 4m
.br
Interpolate points between line vertices (only for use=vertex)
.IP "\fB\-p\fR" 4m
.br
Use dmax as percentage of line length
.IP "\fB\-r\fR" 4m
.br
Start from the end node
.IP "\fB\-t\fR" 4m
.br
Do not create attribute table
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input vector map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Line layer number or name
.br
Vector features can have category values in different layers. This number determines which layer to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBtype\fR=\fIstring[,\fIstring\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Input feature type
.br
Options: \fIpoint, line, boundary, centroid, area, face, kernel\fR
.br
Default: \fIpoint,line,boundary,centroid,face\fR
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output vector map
.IP "\fBuse\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Use line nodes (start/end) or vertices only
.br
Options: \fInode, start, end, vertex\fR
.IP "\fBdmax\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Maximum distance between points in map units or percentage with \-p
.br
Default: \fI100\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.to.points\fR creates points along input 2D or 3D lines,
boundaries and faces. Point features including centroids and kernels
are copied from input vector map to the output. For details see notes
about \fBtype\fR parameter.
.PP
The output is a vector map with 2 layers. Layer 1 holds the category
of the input features; all points created along the same line have the
same category, equal to the category of that line. In layer 2 each
point has its unique category; other attributes stored in layer 2
are \fIlcat\fR \- the category of the input line and \fIalong\fR
\- the distance from line\(cqs start.
.PP
By default only features with category are processed,
see \fBlayer\fR parameter for details.
.SH NOTES
The \fBdmax\fR parameter is the maximum limit but not an exact
distance. To place points with exact distance from the beginning of
the vector line the user should use
\fIv.segment\fR.
.PP
Set \fBlayer\fR to \-1 to process features from all layers including
features without category. Features will be assigned new unique
categories at layer 1. Option \fBlayer=\-1\fR should be used to
convert boundaries, as in most of cases boundaries lack category
values.
.PP
The \fBtype\fR parameter is used to control which input vector
geometry types to convert into points. Some caveats to consider about
this parameter:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
Points and centroids can be considered as \(dqlines\(dq with only one
node. Consequently, the result of selecting \fIpoint\fR or
\fIcentroid\fR as the type parameter is that all
points/centroids get written into the output vector map. The
original category numbers of the input points/centroids get
written to the \(cq\fIlcat\fR\(cq attribute in layer 2 of the output
vector map. All values for \fIalong\fR are zero in the output
vector map, as only point geometry was used for input (there is no
linear distance to calculate
\fIalong\fR, as each point/centroid is the start \fIand\fR
end of its own \(dqline\(dq).
.IP \(bu 4n
Boundaries are treated as lines, with points getting interpolated
along the boundary perimeter according to \fBdmax\fR. If two
adjoining polygons share a topological boundary, the boundary only
gets converted to points once.
.IP \(bu 4n
If the \fBtype\fR parameter is set to \fIarea\fR, the boundary of
each area is converted to points \fIregardless\fR of whether or not
there is a topological boundary between adjacent areas. In other
words, the common boundary of two adjoining areas, for example, gets
converted to points twice. The centroid is not converted to a point in
the output vector for \fItype=area\fR.
.RE
.PP
The \fBuse=vertex\fR option is used to digitize points that fall on
the line\(cqs vertices \fIonly\fR. Parameter \fBdmax\fR is ignored in
this case. Similarly to \fBuse=node\fR when only line\(cqs node are
used. To filter only starting/ending nodes use \fBuse=start/end\fR.
.PP
If the \fB\-i\fR flag is used in conjunction with the \fBuse=vertex\fR option,
\fIv.to.points\fR will digitize points on the line vertices, as
well as interpolate points between line vertices using \fBdmax\fR as
the maximum allowable spacing.
.PP
Use the \fB\-p\fR flag to treat \fBdmax\fR as a percentage of each line
length.  For example, to get points created for the beginning, middle and end
only, use the \fB\-p\fR flag and set \fBdmax\fR so that:
.br
.nf
\fC
 50 < \fIdmax\fR <= 100
\fR
.fi
Hence, if \fBdmax\fR is between 0.5x and 1.0x the line length, you will
always get points created at exactly the beginning, middle and end of
the input line.
.PP
Use the \fB\-r\fR flag to create points starting from the end node.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Points along the input lines
In this example, the \(cqrailroads\(cq vector lines map of the North Carolina
sample dataset is used to create points along the input lines:
.br
.nf
\fC
# The North Carolina data are metric.
# 200m distance for points (maximum limit but not an exact distance)
v.to.points input=railroads output=railroads_points dmax=200
# verify the two layers in the resulting map
v.category input=railroads_points option=report
# vector info
v.info map=railroads_points
\fR
.fi
.SS Extract nodes as points
.br
.nf
\fC
v.to.points input=railroads output=railroads_nodes use=node
\fR
.fi
.SS Extract starting/ending nodes as points
.br
.nf
\fC
v.to.points input=railroads output=railroads_start use=start
v.to.points input=railroads output=railroads_end use=end
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
v.segment,
v.split,
v.to.rast,
v.to.db
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Radim Blazek
.br
Updated to GRASS 7 by Martin Landa, Czech Technical University in
Prague, Czech Republic
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: v.to.points source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
