.TH v.to.rast3 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.to.rast3\fR\fR  \- Converts a vector map (only points) into a 3D raster map.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, conversion, voxel
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.to.rast3\fR
.br
\fBv.to.rast3 \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.to.rast3\fR \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR]  \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fBcolumn\fR=\fIname\fR  [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input vector map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number or name
.br
Vector features can have category values in different layers. This number determines which layer to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output 3D raster map
.IP "\fBcolumn\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of attribute column (data type must be numeric)
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.to.rast3\fR converts a GRASS 3D vector point map to a GRASS 3D raster map.
.SH NOTES
When converting from a 3D vector point layer to a 3D raster map
a vector point is converted into a single 3D raster cell (voxel)
representing the location of the vector point. As 3D raster cell
value the database  attribute of the vector point is stored with
floating point precision.
.br
.TS
expand;
lw60.
T{
\fIThis screenshot shows the result of the v.to.rast3 test. Visualized are the cube of the
grass region, the vector points as black dots and the voxel cells as wireframe model. Only cells with
non\-null values are shown.\fR
T}
.sp 1
.TE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIg.region\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Original s.to.rast3: Jaro Hofierka, Geomodel s.r.o.
.br
Updated by Radim Blazek
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
v.to.rast3 source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
