.TH v.to.3d 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.to.3d\fR\fR  \- Performs transformation of 2D vector features to 3D.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, geometry, 3D
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.to.3d\fR
.br
\fBv.to.3d \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.to.3d\fR [\-\fBrt\fR] \fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBtype\fR=\fIstring\fR[,\fIstring\fR,...]]  \fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBcolumn\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBheight\fR=\fIfloat\fR]   [\-\-\fBoverwrite\fR]  [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-r\fR" 4m
.br
Reverse transformation; 3D vector features to 2D
.IP "\fB\-t\fR" 4m
.br
Do not copy attribute table
.IP "\fB\-\-overwrite\fR" 4m
.br
Allow output files to overwrite existing files
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBinput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of input vector map
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number or name (\(cq\-1\(cq for all layers)
.br
A single vector map can be connected to multiple database tables. This number determines which table to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBtype\fR=\fIstring[,\fIstring\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Input feature type
.br
Options: \fIpoint, line, boundary, centroid\fR
.br
Default: \fIpoint,line,boundary,centroid\fR
.IP "\fBoutput\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name for output vector map
.IP "\fBcolumn\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of attribute column used for height
.br
Can be used for reverse transformation, to store height of points
.IP "\fBheight\fR=\fIfloat\fR" 4m
.br
Fixed height for 3D vector features
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fIv.to.3d\fR module is used to transform 2D vector features
to 3D. Height (z\-coordinate) of 3D vector features can be specified
by \fBheight\fR parameter as fixed value or by \fBcolumn\fR
parameter.
.PP
Flag \fB\-r\fR enables to perform reverse transformation, i.e.,
transform 3D vector to 2D by omitting z\-coordinate. Height of input 3D
features can be optionally stored in \fBcolumn\fR.
.SH  NOTES
When transforming 2D vector features to 3D based on attribute, all
NULL values are silently converted to height 0.0.
.PP
Reverse transformation is possible for points and lines.
In case of lines, the reverse transformation should be used
only when all vertices of a line have the same z\-coordinate
(for example contours).
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Transform 2D vector features to 3D
.br
.nf
\fC
# convert z\-values from string to double
v.db.addcolumn map=geodetic_pts columns=\(dqZ_VALUE_D double precision\(dq
v.db.update map=geodetic_pts column=Z_VALUE_D qcolumn=Z_VALUE
v.db.select map=geodetic_pts columns=cat,Z_VALUE,Z_VALUE_D
# convert 2D vector point map to 3D based on attribute
v.to.3d input=geodetic_pts out=geodetic_pts_3d column=Z_VALUE_D
\fR
.fi
.SS Transform 3D vector features to 2D
.br
.nf
\fC
v.to.3d \-rt input=elev_lid792_bepts output=elev_lid_2d
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
v.transform,
v.extrude,
v.drape
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Martin Landa, Czech Technical University in Prague, Czech Republic
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
v.to.3d source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
