.TH v.what.rast 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.what.rast\fR\fR  \- Uploads raster values at positions of vector points to the table.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, sampling, raster, position, querying, attribute table, surface information
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.what.rast\fR
.br
\fBv.what.rast \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.what.rast\fR [\-\fBip\fR] \fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR]   [\fBtype\fR=\fIstring\fR[,\fIstring\fR,...]]  \fBraster\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBcolumn\fR=\fIname\fR]   [\fBwhere\fR=\fIsql_query\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-i\fR" 4m
.br
Interpolate values from the nearest four cells
.IP "\fB\-p\fR" 4m
.br
Print categories and values instead of updating the database
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of vector points map for which to edit attributes
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number or name
.br
Vector features can have category values in different layers. This number determines which layer to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBtype\fR=\fIstring[,\fIstring\fR,...]\fR" 4m
.br
Input feature type
.br
Options: \fIpoint, centroid\fR
.br
Default: \fIpoint\fR
.IP "\fBraster\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of existing raster map to be queried
.IP "\fBcolumn\fR=\fIname\fR" 4m
.br
Name of attribute column to be updated with the query result
.IP "\fBwhere\fR=\fIsql_query\fR" 4m
.br
WHERE conditions of SQL statement without \(cqwhere\(cq keyword
.br
Example: income < 1000 and population >= 10000
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.what.rast\fR retrieves raster value from a given raster map for each point
or centroid stored in a given vector map. It can update a \fBcolumn\fR in the linked
vector attribute table with the retrieved raster cell value or print it.
.PP
The column type needs to be numeric (integer, float, double,
\&...). If the column doesn\(cqt exist in the vector attribute table than
the module will create the new column of type corresponding with the
input raster map.
.PP
If the \fB\-p\fR flag is used, then the attribute table is not updated
and the results are printed to standard output.
.PP
If the \fB\-i\fR flag is used, then the value to be uploaded to the database
is interpolated from the four nearest raster cells values using an inverse
distance weighting method (IDW). This is useful for cases when the vector
point density is much higher than the raster cell size.
.SH NOTES
.PP
Points and centroid with shared category number cannot be processed.
To solved this, unique categories may be added
with \fIv.category\fR in a separate
layer.
.PP
If multiple points have the same category, the attribute value is set to NULL.
If the raster value is NULL, then attribute value is set to NULL.
.PP
\fIv.what.rast\fR operates on the attribute table. To modify the vector
geometry instead, use \fIv.drape\fR.
.PP
Categories and values are output unsorted with the print flag. To sort them
pipe the output of this module into the UNIX sort tool
(sort \-n). If you need coordinates, after sorting use
\fIv.out.ascii\fR and the UNIX paste tool
(paste \-d\(cq|\(cq). In the case of a NULL result, a \(dq*\(dq
will be printed in lieu of the value.
.PP
The interpolation flag is only useful for continuous value raster maps,
if a categorical raster is given as input the results will be nonsense.
Since the search window is limited to four raster cells there may still
be raster cell\-edge artifacts visible in the results, this compromise
has been made for processing speed. If one or more of the nearest four
raster cells is NULL, then only the raster cells containing values will
be used in the weighted average.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Transferring raster values into existing attribute table of vector points map
Reading values from raster map at position of vector points,
writing these values into a column of the attribute table
connected to the vector map:
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
# work on copy of original geodetic points map
g.copy vector=geodetic_pts,mygeodetic_pts
# set computational region to raster map to be queried
g.region raster=elev_state_500m \-p
# query raster cells (a new column will be added to existing table)
v.what.rast map=mygeodetic_pts raster=elev_state_500m column=height
# compare official geodetic heights to those of elevation model
v.db.select map=mygeodetic_pts columns=Z_VALUE,height separator=comma
\fR
.fi
.SS Transferring raster values into new vector points map
In case of a vector map without attached attribute table, first add
a new attribute table. This table is then populated with values
queried from the raster map:
.PP
.br
.nf
\fC
# create new random vector points map
v.random pnts n=100
# add new table, link to map
v.db.addtable map=pnts column=\(dqheight double precision\(dq
# set computational region to raster map to be queried
g.region raster=elevation \-p
# query raster map and upload values to vector table into specified column
v.what.rast map=pnts raster=elevation column=height
# verify new attribute table:
v.db.select pnts
# verify statistics of uploaded values:
v.univar map=pnts column=height type=point
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
v.category,
v.db.addtable,
v.db.select,
v.drape,
v.univar,
v.rast.stats,
v.what.vect
\fR
.SH AUTHORS
Radim Blazek
.br
Hamish Bowman (interpolation)
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
v.what.rast source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
