.TH v.what.rast3 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH NAME
\fI\fBv.what.rast3\fR\fR  \- Uploads 3D raster values at positions of vector points to the table.
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, sampling, raster, position, querying, attribute table, surface information
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBv.what.rast3\fR
.br
\fBv.what.rast3 \-\-help\fR
.br
\fBv.what.rast3\fR \fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR]  \fBraster_3d\fR=\fIname\fR \fBcolumn\fR=\fIname\fR  [\fBwhere\fR=\fIsql_query\fR]   [\-\-\fBhelp\fR]  [\-\-\fBverbose\fR]  [\-\-\fBquiet\fR]  [\-\-\fBui\fR]
.SS Flags:
.IP "\fB\-\-help\fR" 4m
.br
Print usage summary
.IP "\fB\-\-verbose\fR" 4m
.br
Verbose module output
.IP "\fB\-\-quiet\fR" 4m
.br
Quiet module output
.IP "\fB\-\-ui\fR" 4m
.br
Force launching GUI dialog
.SS Parameters:
.IP "\fBmap\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of vector points map for which to edit attributes
.br
Or data source for direct OGR access
.IP "\fBlayer\fR=\fIstring\fR" 4m
.br
Layer number or name
.br
Vector features can have category values in different layers. This number determines which layer to use. When used with direct OGR access this is the layer name.
.br
Default: \fI1\fR
.IP "\fBraster_3d\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of existing 3D raster map to be queried
.IP "\fBcolumn\fR=\fIname\fR \fB[required]\fR" 4m
.br
Name of attribute column to be updated with the query result
.IP "\fBwhere\fR=\fIsql_query\fR" 4m
.br
WHERE conditions of SQL statement without \(cqwhere\(cq keyword
.br
Example: income < 1000 and population >= 10000
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIv.what.rast3\fR reads 3D raster value for each point in the vector and updates \fBcol\fR
column in vector attribute table by this value. The column should be type double. This module is based on
v.what.rast.
.br
If more points have the same category, attribute value is set to NULL.
If 3D raster values is NULL, attribute value is set to NULL.
.SH NOTES
.SH EXAMPLES
A) Reading values from 3D raster map at position of vector points, writing these values
into a column of the attribute table connected to the vector map:
.br
.br
.nf
\fC
v.what.rast3 map=pnts raster3d=plume column=concentration
\fR
.fi
.PP
B) In case of a vector map without attached attribute table, first add
a new attribute table. This table is then populated with values
queried from the raster map:
.br
.br
.nf
\fC
# create new random 3d vector points map
v.random \-z output=pnts npoints=100 zmin=0  zmax=50
# add new table, link to map
v.db.addtable map=pnts column=\(dqconcentration double precision\(dq
# query raster map and upload values to vector table into specified column
g.region raster3d=plume \-p
v.what.rast3 map=pnts raster3d=plume column=concentration
# verify new attribute table:
v.db.select map=pnts
# verify statistics of uploaded values:
v.univar map=pnts column=concentration type=point
\fR
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
v.db.addtable,
v.db.select,
v.what.rast,
v.what.vect,
v.univar
\fR
.SH AUTHOR
Soeren Gebbert, heavily based on v.what.rast by Radim Blazek
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
v.what.rast3 source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Vector index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
