.TH vector_graphical 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
\&.img\-list {
margin: 0;
padding: 0;
list\-style\-type: none;
}
\&.img\-list li {
padding: 5px;
overflow: auto;
}
\&.img\-list li:hover {
background\-color: #eee;
}
\&.img\-list li a {
color: initial;
text\-decoration: none;
display: block;
}
\&.img\-list li img {
width: 10%;
float: left;
margin: 0 15px 0 0;
background: white;
object\-fit: scale\-down;
}
\&.img\-list li img.default\-img {
max\-height: 5ex;
}
\&.img\-list li .desc {
margin: 0px;
}
\&.img\-list li .name {
margin: 5px;
display: block;
color: #409940;
font\-weight: bold;
font\-style: italic;
}
.SH Graphical index of GRASS GIS modules
Go to vector introduction | topics
.PP
.SS Vector modules:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.buffer\fR \fCCreates a buffer around vector features of given type.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.build.all\fR \fCRebuilds topology on all vector maps in the current mapset.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.build\fR \fCCreates topology for vector map.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.build.polylines\fR \fCBuilds polylines from lines or boundaries.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.category\fR \fCAttaches, deletes or reports vector categories to/from/of map geometry.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.centroids\fR \fCAdds missing centroids to closed boundaries.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.class\fR \fCClassifies attribute data, e.g. for thematic mapping\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.clean\fR \fCToolset for cleaning topology of vector map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.clip\fR \fCExtracts features of input map which overlay features of clip map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.cluster\fR \fCPerforms cluster identification.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.colors\fR \fCCreates/modifies the color table associated with a vector map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.colors.out\fR \fCExports the color table associated with a vector map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.db.addcolumn\fR \fCAdds one or more columns to the attribute table connected to a given vector map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.db.addtable\fR \fCCreates and connects a new attribute table to a given layer of an existing vector map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.db.connect\fR \fCPrints/sets DB connection for a vector map to attribute table.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.db.dropcolumn\fR \fCDrops a column from the attribute table connected to a given vector map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.db.droprow\fR \fCRemoves a vector feature from a vector map through attribute selection.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.db.droptable\fR \fCRemoves existing attribute table of a vector map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.db.join\fR \fCJoins a database table to a vector map table.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.db.reconnect.all\fR \fCReconnects attribute tables for all vector maps from the current mapset to a new database.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.db.renamecolumn\fR \fCRenames a column in the attribute table connected to a given vector map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.db.select\fR \fCPrints vector map attributes.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.db.univar\fR \fCCalculates univariate statistics on selected table column for a GRASS vector map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.db.update\fR \fCUpdates a column in the attribute table connected to a vector map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.decimate\fR \fCDecimates a point cloud
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.delaunay\fR \fCCreates a Delaunay triangulation from an input vector map containing points or centroids.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.dissolve\fR \fCDissolves boundaries between adjacent areas sharing a common category number or attribute.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.distance\fR \fCFinds the nearest element in vector map \(cqto\(cq for elements in vector map \(cqfrom\(cq.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.drape\fR \fCConverts 2D vector features to 3D by sampling of elevation raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.edit\fR \fCEdits a vector map, allows adding, deleting and modifying selected vector features.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.external\fR \fCCreates a new pseudo\-vector map as a link to an OGR\-supported layer or a PostGIS feature table.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.external.out\fR \fCDefines vector output format.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.extract\fR \fCSelects vector features from an existing vector map and creates a new vector map containing only the selected features.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.extrude\fR \fCExtrudes flat vector features to 3D vector features with defined height.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.generalize\fR \fCPerforms vector based generalization.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.hull\fR \fCProduces a 2D/3D convex hull for a given vector map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.import\fR \fCImports vector data into a GRASS vector map using OGR library and reprojects on the fly.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.in.ascii\fR \fCCreates a vector map from an ASCII points file or ASCII vector file.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.in.db\fR \fCCreates new vector (points) map from database table containing coordinates.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.in.dxf\fR \fCConverts file in DXF format to GRASS vector map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.in.e00\fR \fCImports E00 file into a vector map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.in.geonames\fR \fCImports geonames.org country files into a vector points map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.in.lidar\fR \fCConverts LAS LiDAR point clouds to a GRASS vector map with libLAS.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.in.lines\fR \fCImports ASCII x,y[,z] coordinates as a series of lines.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.in.mapgen\fR \fCImports Mapgen or Matlab\-ASCII vector maps into GRASS.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.in.ogr\fR \fCImports vector data into a GRASS vector map using OGR library.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.in.region\fR \fCCreates a vector polygon from the current region extent.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.in.wfs\fR \fCImports GetFeature from a WFS server.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.info\fR \fCOutputs basic information about a vector map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.kcv\fR \fCRandomly partition points into test/train sets.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.kernel\fR \fCGenerates a raster density map from vector points map.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.label\fR \fCCreates paint labels for a vector map from attached attributes.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.label.sa\fR \fCCreate optimally placed labels for vector map(s)\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.lidar.correction\fR \fCCorrects the v.lidar.growing output. It is the last of the three algorithms for LIDAR filtering.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.lidar.edgedetection\fR \fCDetects the object\(cqs edges from a LIDAR data set.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.lidar.growing\fR \fCBuilding contour determination and Region Growing algorithm for determining the building inside\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.lrs.create\fR \fCCreates a linear reference system.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.lrs.label\fR \fCCreates stationing from input lines, and linear reference system.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.lrs.segment\fR \fCCreates points/segments from input lines, linear reference system and positions read from stdin or a file.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.lrs.where\fR \fCFinds line id and real km+offset for given points in vector map using linear reference system.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.mkgrid\fR \fCCreates a vector map of a user\-defined grid.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.neighbors\fR \fCNeighborhood analysis tool for vector point maps.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.net.alloc\fR \fCAllocates subnets for nearest centers.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.net.allpairs\fR \fCComputes the shortest path between all pairs of nodes in the network.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.net.bridge\fR \fCComputes bridges and articulation points in the network.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.net.centrality\fR \fCComputes degree, centrality, betweeness, closeness and eigenvector centrality measures in the network.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.net.components\fR \fCComputes strongly and weakly connected components in the network.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.net.connectivity\fR \fCComputes vertex connectivity between two sets of nodes in the network.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.net.distance\fR \fCComputes shortest distance via the network between the given sets of features.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.net.flow\fR \fCComputes the maximum flow between two sets of nodes in the network.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.net\fR \fCPerforms network maintenance.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.net.iso\fR \fCSplits subnets for nearest centers by cost isolines.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.net.path\fR \fCFinds shortest path on vector network.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.net.salesman\fR \fCCreates a cycle connecting given nodes (Traveling salesman problem).
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.net.spanningtree\fR \fCComputes minimum spanning tree for the network.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.net.steiner\fR \fCCreates Steiner tree for the network and given terminals.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.net.timetable\fR \fCFinds shortest path using timetables.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.net.visibility\fR \fCPerforms visibility graph construction.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.normal\fR \fCTests for normality for vector points.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.out.ascii\fR \fCExports a vector map to a GRASS ASCII vector representation.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.out.dxf\fR \fCExports vector map to DXF file format.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.out.lidar\fR \fCExports vector points as LAS point cloud
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.out.ogr\fR \fCExports a vector map layer to any of the supported OGR vector formats.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.out.postgis\fR \fCExports a vector map layer to PostGIS feature table.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.out.pov\fR \fCConverts GRASS x,y,z points to POV\-Ray x,z,y format.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.out.svg\fR \fCExports a vector map to SVG file.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.out.vtk\fR \fCConverts a vector map to VTK ASCII output.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.outlier\fR \fCRemoves outliers from vector point data.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.overlay\fR \fCOverlays two vector maps offering clip, intersection, difference, symmetrical difference, union operators.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.pack\fR \fCExports a vector map as GRASS GIS specific archive file\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.parallel\fR \fCCreates parallel line to input vector lines.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.patch\fR \fCCreates a new vector map by combining other vector maps.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.perturb\fR \fCRandom location perturbations of vector points.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.profile\fR \fCVector map profiling tool\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.proj\fR \fCRe\-projects a vector map from one location to the current location.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.qcount\fR \fCIndices for quadrat counts of vector point lists.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.random\fR \fCGenerates random 2D/3D vector points.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.rast.stats\fR \fCCalculates univariate statistics from a raster map based on a vector map and uploads statistics to new attribute columns.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.reclass\fR \fCChanges vector category values for an existing vector map according to results of SQL queries or a value in attribute table column.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.rectify\fR \fCRectifies a vector by computing a coordinate transformation for each object in the vector based on the control points.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.report\fR \fCReports geometry statistics for vector maps.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.sample\fR \fCSamples a raster map at vector point locations.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.segment\fR \fCCreates points/segments from input vector lines and positions.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.select\fR \fCSelects features from vector map (A) by features from other vector map (B).\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.split\fR \fCSplits vector lines to shorter segments.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.support\fR \fCUpdates vector map metadata.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.surf.bspline\fR \fCPerforms bicubic or bilinear spline interpolation with Tykhonov regularization.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.surf.idw\fR \fCProvides surface interpolation from vector point data by Inverse Distance Squared Weighting.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.surf.rst\fR \fCPerforms surface interpolation from vector points map by splines.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.timestamp\fR \fCModifies a timestamp for a vector map.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.to.3d\fR \fCPerforms transformation of 2D vector features to 3D.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.to.db\fR \fCPopulates attribute values from vector features.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.to.lines\fR \fCConverts vector polygons or points to lines.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.to.points\fR \fCCreates points along input lines in new vector map with 2 layers.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.to.rast\fR \fCConverts (rasterize) a vector map into a raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.to.rast3\fR \fCConverts a vector map (only points) into a 3D raster map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.transform\fR \fCPerforms an affine transformation (shift, scale and rotate) on vector map.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.type\fR \fCChanges type of vector features.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.univar\fR \fCCalculates univariate statistics of vector map features.
.br
\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.unpack\fR \fCImports a GRASS GIS specific vector archive file (packed with v.pack) as a vector map\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.vect.stats\fR \fCCount points in areas, calculate statistics from point attributes.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.vol.rst\fR \fCInterpolates point data to a 3D raster map using regularized spline with tension (RST) algorithm.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.voronoi\fR \fCCreates a Voronoi diagram constrained to the extents of the current region from an input vector map containing points or centroids.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.what\fR \fCQueries a vector map at given locations.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.what.rast\fR \fCUploads raster values at positions of vector points to the table.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.what.rast3\fR \fCUploads 3D raster values at positions of vector points to the table.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.what.strds\fR \fCUploads space time raster dataset values at positions of vector points to the table.\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fCv.what.vect\fR \fCUploads vector values at positions of vector points to the table.\fR
.RE
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
