.TH wxGUI.vnet 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH wxGUI Vector Network Analysis Tool
.SH KEYWORDS
vector, network, vector
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBVector Network Analysis Tool\fR is graphical front\-end
for v.net* modules. It allows perform network analysis
directly in \fIwxGUI\fR without need to
use command line. The tool can be launched from Layer Manager
menu \fIVector → Network analysis → Vector network analysis
tool\fR or from Map Display toolbar \fIAnalyse map → Vector
network analysis tool\fR .
.PP
.br
Subsets for nearest centers (\fIv.net.alloc\fR)
.PP
\fIVector Network Analysis Tool\fR currently allows you to:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
perform these network analyses:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
Shortest path
(\fIv.net.path\fR)
.IP \(bu 4n
Salesman
(\fIv.net.salesman\fR)
.IP \(bu 4n
Flow (\fIv.net.flow\fR)
.IP \(bu 4n
Allocate subnets for nearest centers
(\fIv.net.alloc\fR)
.IP \(bu 4n
Steiner tree for the network and given terminals
(\fIv.net.distance\fR)
.IP \(bu 4n
Splits net by cost isolines
(\fIv.net.iso\fR)
.RE
.IP \(bu 4n
show and set all data needed for the analysis (points, attribute
tables, compute costs)
.IP \(bu 4n
show analysis results (maps and it\(cqs attribute tables)
.IP \(bu 4n
snapping to nodes
.IP \(bu 4n
browse previous analysis results
.RE
.SH NOTES
The tool is split into tabs. Every tab represents some functionality:
.IP "\fBParameters\fR tab" 4m
.br
It is used for setting vector map and
it\(cqs layer on which analysis will be done. Also it is possible to
set columns with cost values from attribute table connected
to particular layer.
.IP "\fBPoints\fR tab" 4m
.br
It manages points, which are used for analysis.
.IP "\fBOutput\fR tab" 4m
.br
There is a output console, which shows information about running
analysis.
.IP "\fBInput tables\fR tab" 4m
.br
When existing vector map and it\(cqs existing layers are set
in \fIParameters\fR tab, this tab is dynamically added. It shows
attribute tables of node and arc layers, which were chosen for
analysis. It is also possible to compute cost values in this
tab. This can be done by right mouse button click on column
label. Then from pop\-up menu choose \fIAdd column\fR, where new
column for cost values can be created. After that by right mouse
button click on the added column label can be chosen item \fIField
calculator\fR. This tool computes cost values.
.IP "\fBResult tables\fR tab" 4m
.br
The result of vector network analysis is always a vector map. Some
vector network analysis results can also include attribute
tables. If such a table is connected to the result map, this tab is
shown and with it you can browse the data.
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
When some change is done in layer tree of Map Display, temporary
vector map representing result of analysis is not rendered
(use \fIShow result\fR button in toolbar to render it again).
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
wxGUI
.br
wxGUI components
\fR
.PP
See list of vector network modules.
.PP
See also the
user wiki
page including video tutorial.
.SH AUTHOR
Stepan
Turek, Google
Summer of Code 2012 (mentor: Martin Landa)
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at:
wxGUI Vector Network Analysis Tool source code
(history)
.PP
Accessed: unknown
.PP
Main index |
Wxgui index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
