.TH wxGUI.vdigit 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH wxGUI Vector Digitizer
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBvector digitizer\fR is a \fIwxGUI\fR
component intended for interactive editing and digitizing vector maps
(see \fIv.edit\fR for non\-interactive
vector editing GRASS capabilities).
.PP
Note that only vector maps stored or generated in the \fIcurrent\fR
mapset can be opened for editing.
.PP
The digitizer allows editing of 2D vector features (points, lines,
centroids, boundaries, and areas).
.PP
Vector features can be selected by mouse (bounding box or simply by
mouse click, see select threshold
in \fISettings→General→Select threshold\fR), or by query
(eg. by line length, see \fISettings→Query Tool\fR).
.SS STARTING THE DIGITIZER
The vector digitizer can be launched from Map Display toolbar by selecting
\(dqDigitize\(dq from \fITools\fR combobox. Vector map is
selectable for editing from Digitizer toolbar (\(dqSelect vector
map\(dq combobox, note that only vector maps from the current layer
tree in Layer Manager are listed).
The vector digitizer can alternatively be activated from the contextual
menu in the Layer Manager by selecting \(dqStart editing\(dq on selected vector
map in the layer tree, or directly from the Layer Manager
toolbar .
The vector digitizer also can also be launched from the command line as a
stand\-alone application \fIg.gui.vdigit\fR.
.SS CREATING A NEW VECTOR MAP
A new vector map can be easily created from the digitizer toolbar by
selecting \(dqNew vector map\(dq in \(dqSelect vector map\(dq
combobox. A new vector map is created, added to the current layer tree
in Layer Manager and opened for editing. \(dqSelect vector map\(dq
combobox in the digitizer toolbar also allows easily switching between
vector maps to be edited.
.SS EDITING AN EXISTING VECTOR MAP
An existing vector map selected in the digitizer toolbar in the
\(dqSelect vector map\(dq combobox. This map is then opened for editing
and added to the current layer tree in the \fILayer Manager\fR. This
\(dqSelect vector map\(dq combobox in the digitizer toolbar also allows
to easily switch between vector maps to be edited.
.SS USING A RASTER BACKGROUND MAP
In order to digitize from a raster map, simply load the map into the
\fIMap Display\fR using the \fILayer Manager\fR. Then start digitizing,
see below for details.
.SS USING A VECTOR BACKGROUND MAP
The vector digitizer allows you to select a \(dqbackground\(dq vector map.
Loading it within the digitizer is different from simply loading it via
\fILayer Manager\fR since direct interaction with single vector features
then becomes possible.
.br
Vector features may be copied from the background map by \(dqCopy features from
(background) vector map\(dq tool from the \(dqAdditional tools\(dq of the
digitizer toolbar.
Newly digitized vector features are snapped in the given threshold to the features
from the background map.
.SS DIGITIZER TOOLBAR
.br
.br
.br
.IP "      \fIDigitize new point\fR" 4m
.br
Add new point to vector map and optionally define its
attributes.
.IP "      \fIDigitize new line\fR" 4m
.br
Add new line to vector map and optionally define its
attributes.
.IP "      \fIDigitize new boundary\fR" 4m
.br
Add new boundary to vector map and optionally define its
attributes.
.IP "      \fIDigitize new centroid\fR" 4m
.br
Add new centroid to vector map and optionally define its
attributes.
.IP "      \fIDigitize new area\fR" 4m
.br
Add new area (closed boundary and one centroid inside) to vector
map and optionally define its attributes.
.IP "      \fIMove vertex\fR" 4m
.br
Move selected vertex of linear feature. Thus shape of linear
feature is changed.
.IP "      \fIAdd vertex\fR" 4m
.br
Add new vertex to selected linear feature (shape not
changed).
.IP "      \fIRemove vertex\fR" 4m
.br
Remove selected vertex from linear feature. Thus shape of selected
feature can be changed.
.IP "      \fIEdit line/boundary\fR" 4m
.br
Edit selected linear feature, add new segments or remove
existing segments of linear feature.
.IP "      \fIMove feature(s)\fR" 4m
.br
Move selected vector features. Selection can be done by mouse or
by query.
.IP "      \fIDelete feature(s)\fR" 4m
.br
Delete selected vector features (point, line, centroid, or
boundary). Selection can be done by mouse or by query.
.IP "      \fIDelete areas(s)\fR" 4m
.br
Delete selected vector areas. Selection can be done by mouse
or by query.
.IP "      \fIDisplay/update categories\fR" 4m
.br
Display categories of selected vector feature. Category settings
can be modified, new layer/category pairs added or already defined pairs
removed.
.IP "      \fIDisplay/update attributes\fR" 4m
.br
Display attributes of selected vector feature (based on its
category settings).  Attributes can be also modified. Same
functionality is accessible from Main toolbar \(dqQuery vector map
(editable mode)\(dq.
.IP "      \fIAdditional tools\fR" 4m
.br
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fIBreak selected lines/boundaries at intersection\fR
.br
Split
given vector line or boundary into two lines on given position
(based on \fIv.clean\fR,
tool=break).
.IP \(bu 4n
\fIConnect two selected lines/boundaries\fR
.br
Connect selected
lines or boundaries, the first given line is connected to the
second one. The second line is broken if necessary on each intersection.
The lines are connected only if distance between them is not greater
than snapping threshold value.
.IP \(bu 4n
\fICopy categories\fR
.br
Copy category settings of
selected vector feature to other vector
features. Layer/category pairs of source vector features are
appended to the target feature category settings. Existing
layer/category pairs are not removed from category settings of
the target features.
.IP \(bu 4n
\fICopy features from (background) vector map\fR
.br
Make identical copy of
selected vector features. If a background vector map has been
selected from the Layer Manager, copy features from background
vector map, not from the currently modified vector map.
.IP \(bu 4n
\fICopy attributes\fR
.br
Duplicate attributes settings of
selected vector feature to other vector features. New
category(ies) is appended to the target feature category
settings and attributes duplicated based on category settings
of source vector features. Existing layer/category pairs are
not removed from category settings of the target
features.
.IP \(bu 4n
\fIFeature type conversion\fR
.br
Change feature type of selected
geometry features. Points are converted to centroids,
centroids to points, lines to boundaries and boundaries to
lines.
.IP \(bu 4n
\fIFlip selected lines/boundaries\fR
.br
Flip direction of
selected linear features (lines or boundaries).
.IP \(bu 4n
\fIMerge selected lines/boundaries\fR
.br
Merge (at least two)
selected vector lines or boundaries. The geometry of the
merged vector lines can be changed. If the second line from
two selected lines is in opposite direction to the first, it
will be flipped. See also
module \fIv.build.polylines\fR.
.IP \(bu 4n
\fISnap selected lines/boundaries (only to nodes)\fR
.br
Snap
vector features in given threshold. See also
module \fIv.clean\fR. Note that
this tool supports only snapping to nodes. Snapping to vector
features from background vector map is not currently
supported.
.IP \(bu 4n
\fISplit line/boundary\fR
.br
Split selected line or boundary on
given position.
.IP \(bu 4n
\fIQuery tool\fR
.br
Select vector features by defining a threshold for
min/max length value (linear features or dangles).
.IP \(bu 4n
\fIZ\-bulk labeling of 3D lines\fR
.br
Assign z coordinate values to 3D
vector lines in bounding box. This is useful for labeling contour lines.
.RE
.IP "      \fIUndo\fR" 4m
.br
Undo previous operations.
.IP "      \fIRedo\fR" 4m
.br
Redo previous operations.
.IP "      \fISettings\fR" 4m
.br
Digitizer settings.
.IP "      \fIQuit digitizing tool\fR" 4m
.br
Changes in vector map can be optionally discarded when
digitizing session is quited.
.SH NOTES
.IP "\fBMouse button functions:\fR" 4m
.br
.IP "\fILeft\fR   \- select or deselect features" 4m
.IP "\fIControl+Left\fR \- cancel action or undo vertex when digitizing lines" 4m
.IP "\fIRight\fR  \- confirm action" 4m
.PP
\fIDead (deleted)\fR features are only marked as \(cqdead\(cq in the geometry file
but remain there and occupy space. Any vector module
used afterwards on this vector map which really reads and writes
vector geometry (so not \fIg.copy\fR)
will write only features which are \(cqalive\(cq.
.PP
\fIAdded or modified\fR vector features are \fIsnapped\fR to
existing vector features (Settings→General→Snapping). To
disable snapping set the snapping threshold to \(cq0\(cq.
.PP
If the digitizer crashes for some reason, the changes are
automatically saved. Broken topology can be repaired by running
\fIv.build\fR.
.PP
GRASS GIS uses a topological vector format, meaning that a common boundary of
two polygons is only stored once. When digitizing polygons it is thus important
to be able to only draw each boundary once. When drawing a polygon adjacent to an
existing polygon, one has to first split the existing boundary at the points where
the new boundary will be attached. Snapping should be set to ensure that the new
boundaries are automatically attached to the chosen points.
.SH REFERENCES
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
GRASS Vedit Library
.IP \(bu 4n
Vector Database Management (Wiki page)
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
wxGUI
.br
wxGUI components
\fR
.PP
\fI
v.edit,
v.category,
v.build,
wxGUI.rdigit
\fR
.PP
See also the WxGUI Vector Digitizer Wiki page
including video
tutorials.
.SH AUTHOR
Martin Landa, FBK\-irst (2007\-2008), Trento, Italy, and Czech Technical
University in Prague, Czech Republic
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: wxGUI Vector Digitizer source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
GUI index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
