.TH wxGUI.psmap 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.6RC3" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH wxGUI Cartographic Composer
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBwxGUI Cartographic Composer\fR also called \fIwx.psmap\fR is
a \fIwxGUI\fR extension which allows the
user to create interactively hardcopy map outputs. This tool
generates \fIps.map\fR configuration file
and then runs \fIps.map\fR to create
PostScript output. There are two modes \- \fIDraft mode\fR for map
composing and \fIPreview mode\fR
(requires Python
Imaging Library) to see how the result will look like. In draft
mode map features (like legend or scalebar) are represented by a
colored rectangle with a label.
.PP
Possible output files:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fIps.map\fR instructions file
.IP \(bu 4n
PostScript/EPS file
.IP \(bu 4n
PDF (using ps2pdf)
.RE
.br
.br
.br
.PP
Cartographic Composer enables to load in saved instructions file.
Loading instruction files created by Cartographic Composer is more robust,
as opposed to loading files created manually.
.PP
Currently supported \fIps.map\fR instructions:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
paper
.IP \(bu 4n
maploc
.IP \(bu 4n
scale
.IP \(bu 4n
border
.IP \(bu 4n
raster
.IP \(bu 4n
colortable
.IP \(bu 4n
vpoints
.IP \(bu 4n
vlines
.IP \(bu 4n
vareas
.IP \(bu 4n
vlegend
.IP \(bu 4n
text
.IP \(bu 4n
scalebar
.IP \(bu 4n
mapinfo
.IP \(bu 4n
point
.IP \(bu 4n
line
.IP \(bu 4n
rectangle
.IP \(bu 4n
labels
.RE
.SS CARTOGRAPHIC COMPOSER TOOLBAR
.IP "      \fIGenerate instructions file\fR" 4m
.br
Generates and saves text file with mapping instructions.
.IP "      \fILoad instructions file\fR" 4m
.br
Load text file with mapping instructions.
.IP "      \fIPage setup\fR" 4m
.br
Specify paper size, margins and orientation.
.IP "      \fIPointer\fR" 4m
.br
Select object on the paper by clicking, drag the cursor while pressing the left mouse button to move it or resize object (currently only map frame) by clicking on a small black box in its bottom right corner. Double click to show object properties dialog
.IP "      \fIPan\fR" 4m
.br
Drag the pan cursor while pressing the left mouse button to move your view.
.IP "      \fIZoom in\fR" 4m
.br
Interactive zooming with the mouse in both draft and preview mode. Drawing a box or just a left click with the mouse and zoom\-in cursor causes the display to zoom in so that the area defined by the box fills the display.
.IP "      \fIZoom out\fR" 4m
.br
Interactive zooming with the mouse in both draft and preview mode. Drawing a box or just a left click with the mouse and zoom\-out cursor causes the display to zoom out so that the area displayed shrinks to fill the area defined by the box.
.IP "      \fIZoom to page\fR" 4m
.br
Zoom to display the entire page
.IP "      \fIMap frame\fR" 4m
.br
Click and drag to place map frame. If map frame is already drawn, open a dialog to set its properties.
.IP "      \fIRaster map\fR" 4m
.br
Shows a dialog to add or change the raster map.
.IP "      \fIVector map\fR" 4m
.br
Shows a dialog to add or change current vector maps and their properties:
.IP "\fIData selection\fR" 4m
.br
Select data to draw:
.IP "\fIFeature type\fR" 4m
.br
Select which data type to draw. In case of point data, points or centroids
can be drawn, in case of line data, lines or boundaries.
.IP "\fILayer selection\fR" 4m
.br
Select layer and limit data by a SQL query or chose only certain categories.
.IP "\fIMask\fR" 4m
.br
Whether to use mask or not.
.IP "\fIColors\fR" 4m
.br
Color settings:
.IP "\fIOutline\fR" 4m
.br
Select outline color and width in points. In case of lines, outline means highlighting.
.IP "\fIFill\fR" 4m
.br
Select fill color, one color for all vector elements or color from rgb column.
.IP "\fISize and style\fR" 4m
.br
Sets size, style, symbols, pattern; depends on data type:
.IP "\fISymbology\fR" 4m
.br
Available for point data. Choose symbol or EPS file to draw points with.
.IP "\fILine style\fR" 4m
.br
Available for line data. Select line style (solid, dashed, ...) and the look of the ends of the line (butt, round, ...)
.IP "\fIPattern\fR" 4m
.br
Available for areas. Choose pattern file and set the width of the pattern.
.IP "\fISize\fR" 4m
.br
Available for point data. Choose size (number of times larger than the size in the icon file) as a single value or take the size from a map table column.
.IP "\fIRotation\fR" 4m
.br
Available for point data. Rotate symbols counterclockwise with the given value or with the value from a map table column
.IP "\fIWidth\fR" 4m
.br
Available for line data. Set line width in points or take the value from a map table column.
.IP "      \fIAdd overlays\fR" 4m
.br
Add overlays: vector labels, grid (not yet implemented)
.IP "          \fIAdd labels\fR" 4m
.br
Add vector labels created beforehand by v.label module.
.IP "      \fIAdd map elements\fR" 4m
.br
Add map elements: legend, scalebar, map info, text
.IP "          \fIAdd legend\fR" 4m
.br
Add raster or vector legend or edit their properties.
.IP "          \fIAdd map info\fR" 4m
.br
Add information about region, grid and scale or edit map info properties.
.IP "          \fIAdd scalebar\fR" 4m
.br
Add scalebar or edit its properties.
.IP "          \fIAdd text\fR" 4m
.br
Add text label.
.IP "      \fIRemove selected element\fR" 4m
.br
Select an object and remove it. Pressing Delete key does the same.
.IP "      \fIShow preview\fR" 4m
.br
Generates output and switches to Preview mode to see the result. Be patient, it can take a while.
.IP "      \fIGenerate hardcopy map output in PS\fR" 4m
.br
Generates hardcopy map output in PostScript/EPS file.
.IP "      \fIGenerate hardcopy map output in PDF\fR" 4m
.br
Generates hardcopy map output in PDF using ps2pdf.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
wxGUI
.br
wxGUI components
\fR
.PP
See also wiki page.
.SH AUTHOR
Anna Kratochvilova, Czech Technical University in Prague, Czech
Republic (bachelor\(cqs final project 2011, mentor: Martin Landa)
.SH SOURCE CODE
.PP
Available at: wxGUI Cartographic Composer source code (history)
.PP
Main index |
GUI index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2021
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.6RC3 Reference Manual
