.TH wxGUI 1 "" "GRASS 7.8.7" "GRASS GIS User's Manual"
.SH wxGUI
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBwxGUI\fR is a native \fIGraphical User Interface\fR (GUI) for
GRASS GIS. Its main features include displaying geographical data
in 2D and 3D, calling GRASS GIS modules, and interacting with data.
.SS Overview
The GUI is composed of \fIthree\fR main components:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
The \fBLayer Manager\fR includes map layer management, integrated
command\-line prompt, and command output window tab.
.IP \(bu 4n
The \fBMap Display Window\fR integrates basic tools for
zooming, panning, data querying, and map elements (north arrows,
barscale, etc.). Each display window is associated with its own
set of map layers in the layer manager. The user may start multiple map
displays during a session. The map layers for each display are grouped
under different tabs in the Layer Manager.
.IP \(bu 4n
Module dialogs enable running GRASS modules.
.RE
.SS Layer Manager
The \fILayer Manager\fR provides an interactive graphical interface for
creating and managing GRASS displays. There is a toolbar to manage displayed
map layers, a layer tree frame in which map layers for display are organized,
a command output window tab, and interactive command line prompt. On Linux
and Windows platforms, the layer manager also has a menu bar with a set of
pull\-down menus for all GRASS GIS functions (analysis, file I/O, GIS
configuration and management); on a Mac, the GRASS functions menu is at the
top of the screen.
.br
.br
.br
Figure: Layer Manager screenshot on Ubuntu
.PP
The top left button of the toolbar opens a new \fIMap Display
Window\fR. Each map display has a unique set of layers to display
and region settings. Other toolbar buttons add layers of different
types for display in the selected map display window. There are
additional buttons for saving or opening workspace file, and others.
.PP
Map layers are listed in the window frame below the toolbar. Layers can
include raster and vector maps, vector labels, and commands (where any
GRASS command can be written). Layers are displayed as arranged in the layer
tree: the bottom layer is displayed first and the top layer is displayed
last, as if the layers were a series of stacked overlays.
.PP
The check box to the left of each layer makes it active or inactive
for display. Only active layers are displayed/redisplayed when the
display button is pressed. Layers can be organized into groups; entire
groups can be activated or deactivated for display. Layer tree
composition can be saved to a workspace file and opened in subsequent
sessions, restoring all layers and their display options.
.PP
A right mouse click on a layer or left clicking the button to the right of
the layer opens a dropdown menu with options to remove or rename the layer
(not the actual map), change its display properties (d.rast and d.vect
options such as color, symbol, etc.), show its metadata (r.info, v.info) or
attributes, if applicable.
.PP
A left mouse double click on a layer opens GUI for its display options
These options are those for the d.* command for each layer type (d.rast,
d.vect, or d.grid, for example).
.SS Layer Manager Toolbar
.IP "      \fIStart new map display\fR" 4m
.br
Opens a new map display and creates empty layer tree tab in Layer Manager.
.IP "      \fICreate new workspace\fR" 4m
.br
Removes all layers from the layer tree and creates a new, empty tree
where new layers can be added.
.IP "      \fIOpen existing workspace file\fR" 4m
.br
Opens an previously saved workspace file, containing a set of display
layers and their option settings.
.IP "      \fISave current workspace to file\fR" 4m
.br
Saves current set of layers and their options to a workspace
file.
.IP "      \fILoad map layers into workspace\fR" 4m
.br
Loads selected raster or vector maps into current layer tree.
.IP "      \fIAdd raster map layer\fR" 4m
.br
Adds raster map to layer tree, see \fId.rast\fR.
.IP "      \fIAdd various raster map layers (RGB, HIS, shaded relief...)\fR" 4m
.br
Opens a dropdown menu that allows user to select to:
.IP "  	\fIAdd 3D raster map layer\fR" 4m
.br
Adds 3D raster map to layer tree.
.IP "  	\fIAdd RGB raster layer\fR" 4m
.br
Combines and displays three raster maps defined as red, green,
and blue channels to create an RGB color map,
see \fId.rgb\fR.
.IP "  	\fIAdd HIS raster layer\fR" 4m
.br
Combines and displays two or three raster maps defined as hue,
intensity, and (optionally) saturation channels to create a color map,
see \fId.his\fR.
.IP "  	\fIAdd shaded relief raster map layer \fR" 4m
.br
Adds shaded relief raster map layer,
see \fIr.relief\fR and
\fId.shade\fR.
.IP "  	\fIAdd raster arrows layer\fR" 4m
.br
Adds map of raster cells with directional arrows drawn. Arrow
direction and length are determined by separate aspect/directional map
and (optional) slope/intensity map,
see \fId.rast.arrow\fR.
.IP "  	\fIAdd raster numbers layer\fR" 4m
.br
Adds map of raster cells with numbers representing the cell values,
see \fId.rast.num\fR.
.IP "      \fIAdd vector map layer\fR" 4m
.br
Adds a vector map layer,
see \fId.vect\fR.
.IP "      \fIAdd various vector map layers (thematic, chart...)\fR" 4m
.br
Opens a dropdown menu that allows user to select to:
.IP "  	\fIAdd thematic area (choropleth) map layer 	  (for all vector types)\fR" 4m
.br
Adds layer for thematic display values from a numeric attribute
column associated with a vector map. Options include: thematic display
type (graduated colors or point sizes), methods for creating display
intervals, SQL query of attribute column to limit vector objects to
display, control of point icon types and sizes, control of thematic
color schemes, creation of legend for thematic map, and saving the
results of thematic mapping to a ps.map instructions file for later
printing,
see \fId.vect.thematic\fR.
.IP "  	\fIAdd thematic chart layer (for vector points)\fR" 4m
.br
Adds layer in which pie or bar charts can be automatically created
at vector point locations. Charts display values from selected columns
in the associated attribute table. Options include: chart type, layer
and attributes to chart, chart colors, and chart size (fixed or based
on attribute column),
see \fId.vect.chart\fR.
.IP "      \fIAdd group\fR" 4m
.br
Adds an empty group. Layers can then be added to the group.
.IP "      \fIAdd grid or vector labels overlay\fR" 4m
.br
Opens a dropdown menu that allows user to select to:
.IP "  	\fIAdd overlay grids and lines\fR" 4m
.br
Adds layer to display regular grid (for all locations)
see \fId.grid\fR
.IP "  	\fIAdd labels layer for vector objects (from existing labels file)\fR" 4m
.br
Add a layer of text from a labels file for vector objects
created with the \fIv.label\fR module.
A labels file can also be created with a text editor,
see \fId.labels\fR.
.IP "  	\fIAdd geodesic line layer\fR" 4m
.br
Add layer to display geodesic line for latitude/longitude locations only,
see \fId.geodesic\fR
.IP "  	\fIAdd rhumbline layer\fR 	" 4m
.br
Add layer to display rhumblines (for latitude/longitude locations only),
see \fId.rhumbline\fR.
.IP "  	\fIAdd command layer\fR" 4m
.br
Adds a layer in which a GRASS GIS command or command list can be entered.
For a command list use the semi\-colon (\(dq;\(dq) symbol as a separator.
For example:
.br
.nf
\fC
d.rast soils;d.rast \-o roads;d.vect streams col=blue
\fR
.fi
Note that when an option of the command contains spaces, you need to
\(dqescape\(dq them with the backslash (\(cq\(rs\(cq) character, for example:
.br
.nf
\fC
d.text text=Population\(rs density
\fR
.fi
.IP "      \fIDelete selected layer\fR" 4m
.br
Removes selected map layer or map layer group from layer tree.
.IP "      \fIEdit vector maps\fR" 4m
.br
Opens \fIvector digitizer\fR to allow editing selected vector map.
.IP "      \fIShow attribute table\fR" 4m
.br
Opens \fIattribute table manager\fR for selected vector map.
.IP "      \fIImport raster or vector data\fR" 4m
.br
.IP "  	\fIImport raster data\fR" 4m
.br
Import selected raster data into GRASS
using \fIr.in.gdal\fR and load
them into current layer tree.
.IP "  	\fILink external raster data\fR" 4m
.br
Link selected external raster data as GRASS raster maps
(using \fIr.external\fR) and
load them into current layer tree.
.IP "  	\fISet raster output format\fR" 4m
.br
Define external format for newly created raster maps
(see \fIr.external.out\fR
for details)
.IP "  	\fIImport vector data\fR" 4m
.br
Import selected vector data into GRASS
using \fIv.in.ogr\fR and load
them into current layer tree.
.IP "  	\fILink external vector data\fR" 4m
.br
Link selected external vector data as GRASS vector maps
(using \fIv.external\fR) and
load them into current layer tree.
.IP "  	\fISet vector output format\fR" 4m
.br
Define external format for newly created vector maps
(see \fIv.external.out\fR
for details)
.IP "      \fIRaster Map Calculator\fR" 4m
.br
Launches Raster Calculator GUI front\-end
for \fIr.mapcalc\fR.
.IP "      \fIGraphical Modeler\fR" 4m
.br
Launches \fIgraphical
modeler\fR to create models and run them.
.IP "      \fIGeorectifier Tool\fR" 4m
.br
Launches \fIGCP
Manager\fR to create, edit, and manage Ground Control
Points.
.IP "      \fICartographic Composer\fR" 4m
.br
Launches \fICartographic
Composer\fR to create interactively hardcopy map
outputs.
.IP "      \fIShow GUI settings\fR" 4m
.br
Opens dialog to change GUI settings.
.IP "      \fIShow help\fR" 4m
.br
Opens GRASS manual.
.SS Map Display Window
The map display window includes toolbar that can be docked and undocked from
the window, a map canvas where a map composition of one or more layers is
displayed, and a statusbar with information about the geographic region of
the maps displayed.
.br
.br
.br
Figure: Map Display screenshot on Ubuntu
.PP
Each Map Display Window has a unique layer tree (in the layer manager)
and geographic \fIregion\fR setting. At the top of the window is a
toolbar with buttons to manage the map in the display (render, erase, zoom
and pan), for query and and analysis (distance measurement, profile,
and histogram creation), to overlay map elements onto the display (scale,
north arrow, legend, and custom text), and to export or print the display.
.PP
In the statusbar, the user can choose to display the geographic coordinates
under the cursor, current geographical region extent, computational region
(including graphical visualization in map display), map display geometry
(number of rows, columns, resolution) and map scale. Checking the
\fIrender\fR button in the statusbar will cause the map display to update
automatically any time a map is added to, removed from, or changed in its
layer tree.
.PP
It is important to note that zooming in any display will
have \fIno\fR effect on the \(cqcomputational region\(cq setting (set
with \fIg.region\fR). Only by selecting
the \(cqSet current region to match display\(cq item in the zoom menu (in
the map display toolbar) will the current display extents be copied to
the computational region extents.
.SS Map Display Toolbar
.IP "      \fIRe\-render display\fR" 4m
.br
Re\-renders all active map layers regardless of whether they have changed
or not, see \fId.redraw\fR.
.IP "      \fIErase display\fR" 4m
.br
Erases the currently selected map display to a white background,
see \fId.erase\fR.
.IP "      \fIPointer\fR" 4m
.br
Select arrow cursor for map display.
.IP "      \fISelect features from vector map\fR" 4m
.br
Interactively select features from given vector map. Selection
can be stored to a new vector map,
see \fIv.what\fR
and \fIv.extract\fR.
.IP "      \fIQuery raster/vector maps\fR" 4m
.br
Query selected raster, RGB raster (all three map channels will be
queried), or vector map(s) using the mouse. Map(s) must be selected
before query.  Vector charts and thematic vector maps cannot be
queried. The results of the query will be displayed in a dialog.
See \fIr.what, v.what\fR.
.IP "      \fIPan\fR" 4m
.br
Interactive selection of a new center of view in the active
display monitor. Drag the pan cursor while pressing the left mouse
button to pan.  Panning changes the location of the region displayed
but not the size of the area displayed or the resolution. Panning
does \fInot\fR affect the computational region for other GIS
processes, see \fIg.region\fR.
.IP "      \fIZoom in\fR" 4m
.br
Interactive zooming with the mouse in the active display monitor.
Drawing a box or just click with the mouse (left button) and zoom\-in
cursor causes the display to zoom in so that the area defined by the
box fills the display. The map resolution is not changed. Clicking
with the zoom\-in cursor causes the display to zoom in by 30%, centered
on the point where the mouse is clicked. Zooming resets the display
region extents (both size and location of area displayed). It
does \fInot\fR affect the computational region for other GIS
processes, see \fIg.region\fR.
.IP "      \fIZoom out\fR" 4m
.br
Interactive zooming with the mouse in the active display monitor.
Drawing a box or just click with the mouse (left button) and zoom\-out
cursor causes the display to zoom in so that the area displayed
shrinks to fill the area defined by the box. The map resolution is not
changed. Clicking with the zoom\-out cursor causes the display to zoom
out by 30%, centered on the point where the mouse is clicked. Zooming
resets the display region extents (both size and location of area
displayed). It does \fInot\fR affect the computational region for
other GIS processes,
see \fIg.region\fR.
.IP "      \fIZoom to selected map(s)\fR" 4m
.br
Set zoom extent based on selected raster or vector maps. Zooming
resets the display region extents (both size and location of area
displayed). It does \fInot\fR affect the computational region
for other GIS processes,
see \fIg.region\fR.
.IP "      \fIZoom to computational region extent\fR" 4m
.br
Set zoom extent based on the current computational region extent,
see \fIg.region\fR.
.IP "      \fIReturn to previous zoom\fR" 4m
.br
Returns to the previous zoom extent. Up to 10 levels of zoom back are
maintained, see \fIg.region\fR.
.IP "      \fIVarious zoom options\fR" 4m
.br
Opens a dropdown menu that allows user to:
.RS 4n
.IP \(bu 4n
\fIZoom to default region\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fIZoom to saved region\fR. Zooms to previously
saved named region.
.IP \(bu 4n
\fISet computational region extent from display.\fR
The computational region (the mapset\(cqs WIND file)
is set to match the current display extent (does not change
the resolution), see \fIg.region\fR.
.IP \(bu 4n
\fISet computational region extent interactively.\fR
The computational region is set simply by drawing a box with
the left mouse button on Map Display.
.IP \(bu 4n
\fISet computational region from named region\fR.
This option doesn\(cqt affect display zoom.
.IP \(bu 4n
\fISave display geometry to named region\fR
.IP \(bu 4n
\fISave computational region to named region\fR
.RE
.IP "      \fIAnalyze menu\fR" 4m
.br
Opens a dropdown menu with:
.IP "          \fIMeasure distance\fR" 4m
.br
Interactive measurement of lengths defined with the mouse. The
length of each segment and the cumulative length of all segments
measuered is displayed in the command output window frame. Lengths are
measured in the current measurement unit. Double\-click to switch off measuring.
.IP "          \fIMeasure area\fR" 4m
.br
Interactive measurement of area defined with the mouse. Area is
measured in the current measurement unit. Double\-click to switch off measuring.
.IP "          \fIProfile surface map\fR" 4m
.br
Interactively create profile of a raster map. Profile transect is
drawn with the mouse in map display. The profile may be of the
displayed map or a different map. Up to three maps can be profiled
simultaneously.
.IP "          \fICreate bivariate scatterplot of raster maps\fR" 4m
.br
Interactively create bivariate scatterplot of raster
maps.
.IP "          \fICreate histogram of raster map\fR" 4m
.br
Displays histogram of selected raster map or image in new
window.
.IP "          \fICreate histogram with d.histogram\fR" 4m
.br
Displays histogram of selected raster map or image in new
window,
see \fId.histogram\fR.
.IP "          \fIVector network analysis tool\fR" 4m
.br
See tool\(cqs manual page.
.IP "      \fIAdd overlay\fR" 4m
.br
opens a dropdown menu that allows user to
.IP "        \fIAdd raster map legend\fR" 4m
.br
Adds layer to display with legend of selected raster map,
see \fId.legend\fR.
.IP "        \fIAdd scalebar\fR" 4m
.br
Adds layer to display a scalebar. Options
include scalebar placement (using screen coordinates or a mouse),
scalebar format, and scalebar colors,
see \fId.barscale\fR.
.IP "        \fIAdd north arrow\fR" 4m
.br
Adds layer to display a north arrow. Options
include north arrow placement (using screen coordinates or a mouse),
north arrow style and color,
see \fId.northarrow\fR.
.IP "        \fIAdd text layer\fR" 4m
.br
Adds layer to display a line of text using default GRASS font
(selected with \fId.font\fR).  Options
include: text placement (screen coordinates); and text size, bolding,
and color, see \fId.text\fR.
.IP "      \fISave display to graphic file\fR" 4m
.br
Save the visible image in map display to different raster graphic formats.
.IP "      \fIPrint map\fR" 4m
.br
Prints map on system native printer or PostScript device;
saves visible map display (including PostScript text and labels) to PDF
or EPS file.
.IP "\fIMap display mode\fR" 4m
.br
Opens a dropdown menu for selecting different display mode
.IP "\fI2D view\fR" 4m
.br
Normal GIS display. All active layers are composited and displayed
in 2D mode.
.IP "\fI3D view\fR" 4m
.br
Experimental replacement for NVIZ. Displays all active layers in
3D perspective using OpenGL. A new control panel opens to manage the
3D view. 3D view can be zoomed, panned, rotated, and tilted. The
vertical exaggeration of rasters and 3D vectors can be set. Various
color and lighten settings are possible. Not yet functional for
Windows platforms
.IP "\fIVector digitizer\fR" 4m
.br
Puts display into vector digitizing mode and opens a new digitizing
toolbar. The user can digitize a new vector map or edit an existing
map.
.IP "\fIRaster digitizer\fR" 4m
.br
Puts display into raster digitizing mode and opens a new digitizing
toolbar. The user can digitize a new raster map or edit an existing
map.
.SS Keyboard short\-cuts
.SS Layer Manager
.IP "Ctrl+Tab" 4m
.br
Switch \(cqLayers\(cq and \(cqConsole\(cq tab
.IP "Ctrl+Q" 4m
.br
Quit
.IP "Ctrl+R" 4m
.br
Render map in all map displays
\fBWorkspace\fR
.IP "Ctrl+N" 4m
.br
Create new workspace
.IP "Ctrl+O" 4m
.br
Load workspace from file
.IP "Ctrl+S" 4m
.br
Close workspace
\fBLayers\fR
.IP "Ctrl+Shift+L" 4m
.br
Add multiple raster or vector map layers to current map display
.IP "Ctrl+Shift+R" 4m
.br
Add raster map layer to current map display
.IP "Ctrl+Shift+V" 4m
.br
Add vector map layer to current map display
.IP "Ctrl+W" 4m
.br
Close current map display
\fBConsole\fR
.IP "Tab" 4m
.br
Show command tooltips
.IP "Esc" 4m
.br
Hide command tooltips
.IP "Ctrl+Space" 4m
.br
Show auto\-complete suggestions
.IP "Up/Down" 4m
.br
List command history
.IP "Enter" 4m
.br
Run command
.IP "Ctrl++" 4m
.br
Increase font size (numerical keyboard plus key)
.IP "Ctrl+\-" 4m
.br
Decrease font size (numerical keyboard minus key)
.IP "Ctrl+mouse wheel" 4m
.br
Increase or decrease font size
.SS Map Display
.IP "F11" 4m
.br
Fullscreen mode (toggle on/off)
.IP "Ctrl+W" 4m
.br
Close map display
.IP "Ctrl+R" 4m
.br
Render map (re\-renders map)
.IP "F5" 4m
.br
Render map (re\-renders map)
.SS Starting the graphical user interface
If the wxGUI is not the default user interface, it can defined as default by
typing at the GRASS GIS command line prompt:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.gui \-u wxpython
\fR
.fi
Alternatively it may be defined in GISRC file
($HOME/.grass7/rc on GNU/Linux, $APPDATA\(rsGRASS7\(rsrc
on MS Windows) by GUI variable
.br
.nf
\fC
GUI: wxpython
\fR
.fi
or by the environmental variable GRASS_GUI.
.PP
The GUI can be quit by selecting the \(cqFile \-> Exit GUI\(cq menu item.
On MS Windows when GRASS is launched without an interactive command line
this will end the entire GRASS session. In other cases the terminal
window will remain running; type exit at the command prompt
to end the GRASS session.
.PP
The GUI can be restarted from the GRASS command line prompt by typing
.br
.nf
\fC
g.gui
\fR
.fi
or
.br
.nf
\fC
g.gui wxpython
\fR
.fi
To restart with previously saved workspace file:
.br
.nf
\fC
g.gui wxpython workspace=file.gxw
\fR
.fi
.PP
The user can also start GRASS from the shell command line with the wxGUI
specifying the \-\-gui switch:
.br
.nf
\fC
grass78 \-\-gui
\fR
.fi
.SS Background information
\fBwxGUI\fR is a native \fIGraphical User Interface\fR (GUI) for
GRASS GIS written in Python
using wxPython library.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fI
wxGUI components
.br
wxGUI module dialogs
wxGUI toolboxes (menu customization)
\fR
.PP
See also wxGUI wiki
page
(especially various video
tutorials),
and Quick
wxGUI Tutorial.
.SH AUTHORS
Martin Landa, FBK\-irst (2007\-2008), Trento, Italy, and Czech Technical University in Prague, Czech Republic
.br
Michael Barton, Arizona State University, USA
.br
Daniel Calvelo Aros
.br
Jachym Cepicky
.br
Markus Metz, Germany
.br
Anna Kratochvilova, OSGeoREL, Czech Technical University in Prague, Czech Republic
.br
Vaclav Petras, OSGeoREL, Czech Technical University in Prague, Czech Republic
.br
Stepan Turek, OSGeoREL, Czech Technical University in Prague, Czech Republic
.br
Tereza Fiedlerova, OSGeoREL, Czech Technical University in Prague, Czech Republic
.br
Matej Krejci, OSGeoREL, Czech Technical University in Prague, Czech Republic
.br
.br
Icons created by Robert Szczepanek, Poland (Git repository)
.PP
Main index |
Topics index |
Keywords index |
Graphical index |
Full index
.PP
© 2003\-2022
GRASS Development Team,
GRASS GIS 7.8.7 Reference Manual
